---
source_id: 002
bibtex_key: redmon2017yolo9000
title: YOLO9000: Better, Faster, Stronger
year: 2017
domain_theme: Fondasi RGB
verified_pdf: 2_YOLO9000 (YOLOv2).pdf
char_count: 69855
---

YOLO9000:
                                                                                      Better, Faster, Stronger

                                                                                     Joseph Redmon∗† , Ali Farhadi∗†
                                                                                 University of Washington∗ , Allen Institute for AI†
                                                                              http://pjreddie.com/yolo9000/

                                                                 Abstract
                                             We introduce YOLO9000, a state-of-the-art, real-time
                                         object detection system that can detect over 9000 object
                                         categories. First we propose various improvements to the
arXiv:1612.08242v1 [cs.CV] 25 Dec 2016

                                         YOLO detection method, both novel and drawn from prior
                                         work. The improved model, YOLOv2, is state-of-the-art on
                                         standard detection tasks like PASCAL VOC and COCO. Us-
                                         ing a novel, multi-scale training method the same YOLOv2
                                         model can run at varying sizes, offering an easy tradeoff
                                         between speed and accuracy. At 67 FPS, YOLOv2 gets
                                         76.8 mAP on VOC 2007. At 40 FPS, YOLOv2 gets 78.6
                                         mAP, outperforming state-of-the-art methods like Faster R-
                                         CNN with ResNet and SSD while still running significantly
                                         faster. Finally we propose a method to jointly train on ob-
                                         ject detection and classification. Using this method we train
                                         YOLO9000 simultaneously on the COCO detection dataset
                                         and the ImageNet classification dataset. Our joint training
                                         allows YOLO9000 to predict detections for object classes
                                         that don’t have labelled detection data. We validate our
                                         approach on the ImageNet detection task. YOLO9000 gets
                                         19.7 mAP on the ImageNet detection validation set despite
                                         only having detection data for 44 of the 200 classes. On the
                                         156 classes not in COCO, YOLO9000 gets 16.0 mAP. But
                                         YOLO can detect more than just 200 classes; it predicts de-
                                         tections for more than 9000 different object categories. And
                                         it still runs in real-time.

                                         1. Introduction
                                             General purpose object detection should be fast, accu-
                                         rate, and able to recognize a wide variety of objects. Since
                                         the introduction of neural networks, detection frameworks
                                         have become increasingly fast and accurate. However, most
                                         detection methods are still constrained to a small set of ob-
                                         jects.
                                             Current object detection datasets are limited compared
                                         to datasets for other tasks like classification and tagging.
                                         The most common detection datasets contain thousands to
                                         hundreds of thousands of images with dozens to hundreds
                                         of tags [3] [10] [2]. Classification datasets have millions
                                         of images with tens or hundreds of thousands of categories
                                         [20] [2].
                                             We would like detection to scale to level of object clas-
                                         sification. However, labelling images for detection is far
                                         more expensive than labelling for classification or tagging         Figure 1: YOLO9000. YOLO9000 can detect a wide variety of
                                                                                                             object classes in real-time.
                                         (tags are often user-supplied for free). Thus we are unlikely

                                                                                                         1
to see detection datasets on the same scale as classification          simultaneously switch to learning object detection and ad-
datasets in the near future.                                           just to the new input resolution.
   We propose a new method to harness the large amount                     For YOLOv2 we first fine tune the classification network
of classification data we already have and use it to expand            at the full 448 × 448 resolution for 10 epochs on ImageNet.
the scope of current detection systems. Our method uses a              This gives the network time to adjust its filters to work better
hierarchical view of object classification that allows us to           on higher resolution input. We then fine tune the resulting
combine distinct datasets together.                                    network on detection. This high resolution classification
   We also propose a joint training algorithm that allows              network gives us an increase of almost 4% mAP.
us to train object detectors on both detection and classifica-             Convolutional With Anchor Boxes. YOLO predicts
tion data. Our method leverages labeled detection images to            the coordinates of bounding boxes directly using fully con-
learn to precisely localize objects while it uses classification       nected layers on top of the convolutional feature extractor.
images to increase its vocabulary and robustness.                      Instead of predicting coordinates directly Faster R-CNN
   Using this method we train YOLO9000, a real-time ob-                predicts bounding boxes using hand-picked priors [15]. Us-
ject detector that can detect over 9000 different object cat-          ing only convolutional layers the region proposal network
egories. First we improve upon the base YOLO detection                 (RPN) in Faster R-CNN predicts offsets and confidences for
system to produce YOLOv2, a state-of-the-art, real-time                anchor boxes. Since the prediction layer is convolutional,
detector. Then we use our dataset combination method                   the RPN predicts these offsets at every location in a feature
and joint training algorithm to train a model on more than             map. Predicting offsets instead of coordinates simplifies the
9000 classes from ImageNet as well as detection data from              problem and makes it easier for the network to learn.
COCO.                                                                      We remove the fully connected layers from YOLO and
   All of our code and pre-trained models are available on-            use anchor boxes to predict bounding boxes. First we
line at http://pjreddie.com/yolo9000/.                                 eliminate one pooling layer to make the output of the net-
                                                                       work’s convolutional layers higher resolution. We also
2. Better                                                              shrink the network to operate on 416 input images instead
                                                                       of 448×448. We do this because we want an odd number of
    YOLO suffers from a variety of shortcomings relative to            locations in our feature map so there is a single center cell.
state-of-the-art detection systems. Error analysis of YOLO             Objects, especially large objects, tend to occupy the center
compared to Fast R-CNN shows that YOLO makes a sig-                    of the image so it’s good to have a single location right at
nificant number of localization errors. Furthermore, YOLO              the center to predict these objects instead of four locations
has relatively low recall compared to region proposal-based            that are all nearby. YOLO’s convolutional layers downsam-
methods. Thus we focus mainly on improving recall and                  ple the image by a factor of 32 so by using an input image
localization while maintaining classification accuracy.                of 416 we get an output feature map of 13 × 13.
    Computer vision generally trends towards larger, deeper                When we move to anchor boxes we also decouple the
networks [6] [18] [17]. Better performance often hinges on             class prediction mechanism from the spatial location and
training larger networks or ensembling multiple models to-             instead predict class and objectness for every anchor box.
gether. However, with YOLOv2 we want a more accurate                   Following YOLO, the objectness prediction still predicts
detector that is still fast. Instead of scaling up our network,        the IOU of the ground truth and the proposed box and the
we simplify the network and then make the representation               class predictions predict the conditional probability of that
easier to learn. We pool a variety of ideas from past work             class given that there is an object.
with our own novel concepts to improve YOLO’s perfor-                      Using anchor boxes we get a small decrease in accuracy.
mance. A summary of results can be found in Table 2.                   YOLO only predicts 98 boxes per image but with anchor
    Batch Normalization. Batch normalization leads to sig-             boxes our model predicts more than a thousand. Without
nificant improvements in convergence while eliminating the             anchor boxes our intermediate model gets 69.5 mAP with a
need for other forms of regularization [7]. By adding batch            recall of 81%. With anchor boxes our model gets 69.2 mAP
normalization on all of the convolutional layers in YOLO               with a recall of 88%. Even though the mAP decreases, the
we get more than 2% improvement in mAP. Batch normal-                  increase in recall means that our model has more room to
ization also helps regularize the model. With batch nor-               improve.
malization we can remove dropout from the model without                    Dimension Clusters. We encounter two issues with an-
overfitting.                                                           chor boxes when using them with YOLO. The first is that
    High Resolution Classifier. All state-of-the-art detec-            the box dimensions are hand picked. The network can learn
tion methods use classifier pre-trained on ImageNet [16].              to adjust the boxes appropriately but if we pick better priors
Starting with AlexNet most classifiers operate on input im-            for the network to start with we can make it easier for the
ages smaller than 256 × 256 [8]. The original YOLO trains              network to learn to predict good detections.
the classifier network at 224 × 224 and increases the reso-                Instead of choosing priors by hand, we run k-means
lution to 448 for detection. This means the network has to             clustering on the training set bounding boxes to automat-

                                                                   2
 0.75
                                                                                         Direct location prediction. When using anchor boxes
              VOC 2007                                                                with YOLO we encounter a second issue: model instability,
                                                                                      especially during early iterations. Most of the instability
                                                                                      comes from predicting the (x, y) locations for the box. In
Avg IOU

                                                                                      region proposal networks the network predicts values tx and
                   COCO
                                                                                      ty and the (x, y) center coordinates are calculated as:

      0
                                                                                                           x = (tx ∗ wa ) − xa
          1    2    3     4   5   6   7   8   9 10 11 12 13 14 15
                                  # Clusters
                                                                                                           y = (ty ∗ ha ) − ya

 Figure 2: Clustering box dimensions on VOC and COCO. We                                 For example, a prediction of tx = 1 would shift the box
 run k-means clustering on the dimensions of bounding boxes to get                    to the right by the width of the anchor box, a prediction of
 good priors for our model. The left image shows the average IOU                      tx = −1 would shift it to the left by the same amount.
 we get with various choices for k. We find that k = 5 gives a good                      This formulation is unconstrained so any anchor box can
 tradeoff for recall vs. complexity of the model. The right image                     end up at any point in the image, regardless of what loca-
 shows the relative centroids for VOC and COCO. Both sets of pri-                     tion predicted the box. With random initialization the model
 ors favor thinner, taller boxes while COCO has greater variation in                  takes a long time to stabilize to predicting sensible offsets.
 size than VOC.                                                                          Instead of predicting offsets we follow the approach of
                                                                                      YOLO and predict location coordinates relative to the loca-
                                                                                      tion of the grid cell. This bounds the ground truth to fall
 ically find good priors. If we use standard k-means with                             between 0 and 1. We use a logistic activation to constrain
 Euclidean distance larger boxes generate more error than                             the network’s predictions to fall in this range.
 smaller boxes. However, what we really want are priors                                  The network predicts 5 bounding boxes at each cell in
 that lead to good IOU scores, which is independent of the                            the output feature map. The network predicts 5 coordinates
 size of the box. Thus for our distance metric we use:                                for each bounding box, tx , ty , tw , th , and to . If the cell is
                                                                                      offset from the top left corner of the image by (cx , cy ) and
                                                                                      the bounding box prior has width and height pw , ph , then
                          d(box, centroid) = 1 − IOU(box, centroid)                   the predictions correspond to:

     We run k-means for various values of k and plot the av-
 erage IOU with closest centroid, see Figure 2. We choose                                                                   bx = σ(tx ) + cx
 k = 5 as a good tradeoff between model complexity and                                                                      by = σ(ty ) + cy
 high recall. The cluster centroids are significantly different                                                             bw = p w e t w
 than hand-picked anchor boxes. There are fewer short, wide
 boxes and more tall, thin boxes.                                                                                       bh = p h e t h
     We compare the average IOU to closest prior of our clus-                                 P r(object) ∗ IOU (b, object) = σ(to )
 tering strategy and the hand-picked anchor boxes in Table 1.
 At only 5 priors the centroids perform similarly to 9 anchor
 boxes with an average IOU of 61.0 compared to 60.9. If                                  Since we constrain the location prediction the
 we use 9 centroids we see a much higher average IOU. This                            parametrization is easier to learn, making the network
 indicates that using k-means to generate our bounding box                            more stable. Using dimension clusters along with directly
 starts the model off with a better representation and makes                          predicting the bounding box center location improves
 the task easier to learn.                                                            YOLO by almost 5% over the version with anchor boxes.
                                                                                         Fine-Grained Features.This modified YOLO predicts
                                  Box Generation                    #   Avg IOU       detections on a 13 × 13 feature map. While this is suffi-
                                  Cluster SSE                       5     58.7        cient for large objects, it may benefit from finer grained fea-
                                  Cluster IOU                       5     61.0        tures for localizing smaller objects. Faster R-CNN and SSD
                                  Anchor Boxes [15]                 9     60.9        both run their proposal networks at various feature maps in
                                  Cluster IOU                       9     67.2        the network to get a range of resolutions. We take a differ-
                                                                                      ent approach, simply adding a passthrough layer that brings
                                                                                      features from an earlier layer at 26 × 26 resolution.
 Table 1: Average IOU of boxes to closest priors on VOC 2007.                            The passthrough layer concatenates the higher resolution
 The average IOU of objects on VOC 2007 to their closest, unmod-                      features with the low resolution features by stacking adja-
 ified prior using different generation methods. Clustering gives                     cent features into different channels instead of spatial lo-
 much better results than using hand-picked priors.                                   cations, similar to the identity mappings in ResNet. This

                                                                                  3
             cx
                                                                                                  80
                                                                                                                                             YO

                                                                         Mean Average Precision
                                                                                                                                               LO
                                                                                                       Faster R-CNN   SSD512                         v2
                            pw
                                                                                                          Resnet

cy                                                                                                           Faster R-CNN
                                                                                                                                 SSD300

                            bw                                                                           Fast R-CNN
                                                                                                  70

                               σ(ty)          bx=σ(tx)+cx                                                R-CNN
           ph      bh                         by=σ(ty)+cy                                                                        YOLO

                         σ(tx)                bw=pwet   w

                                              bh=phet   h
                                                                                                  60
                                                                                                         0                  30       50                          100
                                                                                                                         Frames Per Second

Figure 3: Bounding boxes with dimension priors and location                                            Figure 4: Accuracy and speed on VOC 2007.
prediction. We predict the width and height of the box as offsets
from cluster centroids. We predict the center coordinates of the
box relative to the location of filter application using a sigmoid
                                                                         with other frameworks on VOC 2007. Figure 4
function.                                                                   Further Experiments. We train YOLOv2 for detection
                                                                         on VOC 2012. Table 4 shows the comparative performance
                                                                         of YOLOv2 versus other state-of-the-art detection systems.
turns the 26 × 26 × 512 feature map into a 13 × 13 × 2048                YOLOv2 achieves 73.4 mAP while running far faster than
feature map, which can be concatenated with the original                 competing methods. We also train on COCO and compare
features. Our detector runs on top of this expanded feature              to other methods in Table 5. On the VOC metric (IOU =
map so that it has access to fine grained features. This gives           .5) YOLOv2 gets 44.0 mAP, comparable to SSD and Faster
a modest 1% performance increase.                                        R-CNN.
   Multi-Scale Training. The original YOLO uses an input                        Detection Frameworks                                         Train        mAP    FPS
resolution of 448 × 448. With the addition of anchor boxes                      Fast R-CNN [5]                                          2007+2012         70.0    0.5
we changed the resolution to 416×416. However, since our                        Faster R-CNN VGG-16[15]                                 2007+2012         73.2      7
model only uses convolutional and pooling layers it can be                      Faster R-CNN ResNet[6]                                  2007+2012         76.4      5
resized on the fly. We want YOLOv2 to be robust to running                      YOLO [14]                                               2007+2012         63.4    45
on images of different sizes so we train this into the model.                   SSD300 [11]                                             2007+2012         74.3    46
   Instead of fixing the input image size we change the net-                    SSD500 [11]                                             2007+2012         76.8    19
work every few iterations. Every 10 batches our network                         YOLOv2 288 × 288                                        2007+2012         69.0    91
randomly chooses a new image dimension size. Since our                          YOLOv2 352 × 352                                        2007+2012         73.7    81
model downsamples by a factor of 32, we pull from the                           YOLOv2 416 × 416                                        2007+2012         76.8    67
following multiples of 32: {320, 352, ..., 608}. Thus the                       YOLOv2 480 × 480                                        2007+2012         77.8    59
smallest option is 320 × 320 and the largest is 608 × 608.                      YOLOv2 544 × 544                                        2007+2012         78.6    40
We resize the network to that dimension and continue train-
ing.
   This regime forces the network to learn to predict well               Table 3: Detection frameworks on PASCAL VOC 2007.
across a variety of input dimensions. This means the same                YOLOv2 is faster and more accurate than prior detection meth-
network can predict detections at different resolutions. The             ods. It can also run at different resolutions for an easy tradeoff
network runs faster at smaller sizes so YOLOv2 offers an                 between speed and accuracy. Each YOLOv2 entry is actually the
                                                                         same trained model with the same weights, just evaluated at a dif-
easy tradeoff between speed and accuracy.
                                                                         ferent size. All timing information is on a Geforce GTX Titan X
   At low resolutions YOLOv2 operates as a cheap, fairly                 (original, not Pascal model).
accurate detector. At 288 × 288 it runs at more than 90 FPS
with mAP almost as good as Fast R-CNN. This makes it
ideal for smaller GPUs, high framerate video, or multiple
video streams.
                                                                         3. Faster
   At high resolution YOLOv2 is a state-of-the-art detector                 We want detection to be accurate but we also want it to be
with 78.6 mAP on VOC 2007 while still operating above                    fast. Most applications for detection, like robotics or self-
real-time speeds. See Table 3 for a comparison of YOLOv2                 driving cars, rely on low latency predictions. In order to

                                                                     4
                                                 YOLO                                                              YOLOv2
                               batch norm?                   X       X       X       X       X      X       X        X
                          hi-res classifier?                         X       X       X       X      X       X        X
                            convolutional?                                   X       X       X      X       X        X
                            anchor boxes?                                    X       X
                             new network?                                            X       X      X       X          X
                        dimension priors?                                                    X      X       X          X
                      location prediction?                                                   X      X       X          X
                              passthrough?                                                          X       X          X
                               multi-scale?                                                                 X          X
                           hi-res detector?                                                                            X
                          VOC2007 mAP             63.4      65.8 69.5 69.2 69.6 74.4 75.4 76.8                        78.6

Table 2: The path from YOLO to YOLOv2. Most of the listed design decisions lead to significant increases in mAP. Two
exceptions are switching to a fully convolutional network with anchor boxes and using the new network. Switching to the
anchor box style approach increased recall without changing mAP while using the new network cut computation by 33%.

         Method             data mAP aero bike bird boat bottle bus car cat chair cow table dog horse mbike person plant sheep sofa train tv
         Fast R-CNN [5]    07++12 68.4 82.3 78.4 70.8 52.3 38.7 77.8 71.6 89.3 44.2 73.0 55.0 87.5 80.5 80.8 72.0 35.1 68.3 65.7 80.4 64.2
         Faster R-CNN [15] 07++12 70.4 84.9 79.8 74.3 53.9 49.8 77.5 75.9 88.5 45.6 77.1 55.3 86.9 81.7 80.9 79.6 40.1 72.6 60.9 81.2 61.5
         YOLO [14]         07++12 57.9 77.0 67.2 57.7 38.3 22.7 68.3 55.9 81.4 36.2 60.8 48.5 77.2 72.3 71.3 63.5 28.9 52.2 54.8 73.9 50.8
         SSD300 [11]       07++12 72.4 85.6 80.1 70.5 57.6 46.2 79.4 76.1 89.2 53.0 77.0 60.8 87.0 83.1 82.3 79.4 45.9 75.9 69.5 81.9 67.5
         SSD512 [11]       07++12 74.9 87.4 82.3 75.8 59.0 52.6 81.7 81.5 90.0 55.4 79.0 59.8 88.4 84.3 84.7 83.3 50.2 78.0 66.3 86.3 72.0
         ResNet [6]        07++12 73.8 86.5 81.6 77.2 58.0 51.0 78.6 76.6 93.2 48.6 80.4 59.0 92.1 85.3 84.8 80.7 48.1 77.3 66.5 84.7 65.6
         YOLOv2 544        07++12 73.4 86.3 82.0 74.8 59.2 51.8 79.8 76.5 90.6 52.1 78.2 58.5 89.3 82.5 83.4 81.3 49.1 77.2 62.4 83.8 68.7

Table 4: PASCAL VOC2012 test detection results. YOLOv2 performs on par with state-of-the-art detectors like Faster
R-CNN with ResNet and SSD512 and is 2 − 10× faster.

maximize performance we design YOLOv2 to be fast from                        Table 6. Darknet-19 only requires 5.58 billion operations
the ground up.                                                               to process an image yet achieves 72.9% top-1 accuracy and
    Most detection frameworks rely on VGG-16 as the base                     91.2% top-5 accuracy on ImageNet.
feature extractor [17]. VGG-16 is a powerful, accurate clas-                    Training for classification. We train the network on
sification network but it is needlessly complex. The con-                    the standard ImageNet 1000 class classification dataset for
volutional layers of VGG-16 require 30.69 billion floating                   160 epochs using stochastic gradient descent with a starting
point operations for a single pass over a single image at                    learning rate of 0.1, polynomial rate decay with a power of
224 × 224 resolution.                                                        4, weight decay of 0.0005 and momentum of 0.9 using the
    The YOLO framework uses a custom network based on                        Darknet neural network framework [13]. During training
the Googlenet architecture [19]. This network is faster than                 we use standard data augmentation tricks including random
VGG-16, only using 8.52 billion operations for a forward                     crops, rotations, and hue, saturation, and exposure shifts.
pass. However, it’s accuracy is slightly worse than VGG-                        As discussed above, after our initial training on images
16. For single-crop, top-5 accuracy at 224 × 224, YOLO’s                     at 224 × 224 we fine tune our network at a larger size, 448.
custom model gets 88.0% ImageNet compared to 90.0% for                       For this fine tuning we train with the above parameters but
VGG-16.                                                                      for only 10 epochs and starting at a learning rate of 10−3 . At
    Darknet-19. We propose a new classification model to                     this higher resolution our network achieves a top-1 accuracy
be used as the base of YOLOv2. Our model builds off of                       of 76.5% and a top-5 accuracy of 93.3%.
prior work on network design as well as common knowl-                           Training for detection. We modify this network for de-
edge in the field. Similar to the VGG models we use mostly                   tection by removing the last convolutional layer and instead
3 × 3 filters and double the number of channels after ev-                    adding on three 3 × 3 convolutional layers with 1024 fil-
ery pooling step [17]. Following the work on Network in                      ters each followed by a final 1 × 1 convolutional layer with
Network (NIN) we use global average pooling to make pre-                     the number of outputs we need for detection. For VOC we
dictions as well as 1 × 1 filters to compress the feature rep-               predict 5 boxes with 5 coordinates each and 20 classes per
resentation between 3 × 3 convolutions [9]. We use batch                     box so 125 filters. We also add a passthrough layer from the
normalization to stabilize training, speed up convergence,                   final 3 × 3 × 512 layer to the second to last convolutional
and regularize the model [7].                                                layer so that our model can use fine grain features.
    Our final model, called Darknet-19, has 19 convolutional                    We train the network for 160 epochs with a starting
layers and 5 maxpooling layers. For a full description see                   learning rate of 10−3 , dividing it by 10 at 60 and 90 epochs.

                                                                         5
                                                       0.5:0.95 0.5 0.75 S M L 1 10 100 S M L
                 Fast R-CNN [5]      train               19.7 35.9 - - -          -    -    -    -    -    -    -
                 Fast R-CNN[1]       train               20.5 39.9 19.4 4.1 20.0 35.8 21.3 29.5 30.1 7.3 32.1 52.0
                 Faster R-CNN[15] trainval               21.9 42.7 - - -          -    -    -    -    -    -    -
                 ION [1]             train               23.6 43.2 23.6 6.4 24.1 38.3 23.2 32.7 33.5 10.1 37.7 53.6
                 Faster R-CNN[10] trainval               24.2 45.3 23.5 7.7 26.4 37.1 23.8 34.0 34.6 12.0 38.5 54.4
                 SSD300 [11]     trainval35k             23.2 41.2 23.4 5.3 23.2 39.6 22.5 33.2 35.3 9.6 37.6 56.5
                 SSD512 [11]     trainval35k             26.8 46.5 27.8 9.0 28.9 41.9 24.8 37.5 39.8 14.0 43.5 59.0
                 YOLOv2 [11]     trainval35k             21.6 44.0 19.2 5.0 22.4 35.5 20.7 31.6 33.3 9.8 36.5 54.4

                            Table 5: Results on COCO test-dev2015. Table adapted from [11]

            Type         Filters   Size/Stride     Output
         Convolutional     32        3×3         224 × 224
                                                                             This approach presents a few challenges. Detection
           Maxpool                  2 × 2/2      112 × 112               datasets have only common objects and general labels, like
         Convolutional     64        3×3         112 × 112
           Maxpool                  2 × 2/2       56 × 56
                                                                         “dog” or “boat”. Classification datasets have a much wider
         Convolutional    128        3×3          56 × 56                and deeper range of labels. ImageNet has more than a hun-
         Convolutional    64         1×1          56 × 56
         Convolutional    128        3×3          56 × 56
                                                                         dred breeds of dog, including “Norfolk terrier”, “Yorkshire
           Maxpool                  2 × 2/2       28 × 28                terrier”, and “Bedlington terrier”. If we want to train on
         Convolutional    256        3×3          28 × 28
         Convolutional    128        1×1          28 × 28
                                                                         both datasets we need a coherent way to merge these labels.
         Convolutional    256        3×3          28 × 28                    Most approaches to classification use a softmax layer
           Maxpool                  2 × 2/2       14 × 14
         Convolutional    512        3×3          14 × 14                across all the possible categories to compute the final prob-
         Convolutional    256        1×1          14 × 14                ability distribution. Using a softmax assumes the classes
         Convolutional    512        3×3          14 × 14
         Convolutional    256        1×1          14 × 14                are mutually exclusive. This presents problems for combin-
         Convolutional    512        3×3          14 × 14                ing datasets, for example you would not want to combine
           Maxpool                  2 × 2/2        7×7
         Convolutional   1024        3×3           7×7                   ImageNet and COCO using this model because the classes
         Convolutional   512         1×1           7×7                   “Norfolk terrier” and “dog” are not mutually exclusive.
         Convolutional   1024        3×3           7×7
         Convolutional   512         1×1           7×7                       We could instead use a multi-label model to combine the
         Convolutional   1024        3×3           7×7                   datasets which does not assume mutual exclusion. This ap-
         Convolutional   1000        1×1           7×7
           Avgpool                   Global        1000
                                                                         proach ignores all the structure we do know about the data,
           Softmax                                                       for example that all of the COCO classes are mutually ex-
                                                                         clusive.
                                                                             Hierarchical classification. ImageNet labels are pulled
                     Table 6: Darknet-19.
                                                                         from WordNet, a language database that structures concepts
                                                                         and how they relate [12]. In WordNet, “Norfolk terrier” and
We use a weight decay of 0.0005 and momentum of 0.9.                     “Yorkshire terrier” are both hyponyms of “terrier” which is
We use a similar data augmentation to YOLO and SSD with                  a type of “hunting dog”, which is a type of “dog”, which is
random crops, color shifting, etc. We use the same training              a “canine”, etc. Most approaches to classification assume a
strategy on COCO and VOC.                                                flat structure to the labels however for combining datasets,
                                                                         structure is exactly what we need.
                                                                             WordNet is structured as a directed graph, not a tree, be-
4. Stronger
                                                                         cause language is complex. For example a “dog” is both
   We propose a mechanism for jointly training on classi-                a type of “canine” and a type of “domestic animal” which
fication and detection data. Our method uses images la-                  are both synsets in WordNet. Instead of using the full graph
belled for detection to learn detection-specific information             structure, we simplify the problem by building a hierarchi-
like bounding box coordinate prediction and objectness as                cal tree from the concepts in ImageNet.
well as how to classify common objects. It uses images with                  To build this tree we examine the visual nouns in Ima-
only class labels to expand the number of categories it can              geNet and look at their paths through the WordNet graph to
detect.                                                                  the root node, in this case “physical object”. Many synsets
   During training we mix images from both detection and                 only have one path through the graph so first we add all of
classification datasets. When our network sees an image                  those paths to our tree. Then we iteratively examine the
labelled for detection we can backpropagate based on the                 concepts we have left and add the paths that grow the tree
full YOLOv2 loss function. When it sees a classification                 by as little as possible. So if a concept has two paths to the
image we only backpropagate loss from the classification-                root and one path would add three edges to our tree and the
specific parts of the architecture.                                      other would only add one edge, we choose the shorter path.

                                                                     6
   The final result is WordTree, a hierarchical model of vi-                                  Imagenet 1k
sual concepts. To perform classification with WordTree we                                          softmax
predict conditional probabilities at every node for the prob-
                                                                                                                    ...
                                                                                                                     986

ability of each hyponym of that synset given that synset. For
example, at the “terrier” node we predict:

                                                                      ki
                                                                        En fo

                                                                        Si ish

                                                                        Au ria ett

                                                                        En ral hus

                                                                        gr ish n t

                                                                        le wh pri ie

                                                                        Eg er e

                                                                        ib tia nda

                                                                        Pe

                                                                        co ian

                                                                                                                       ru

                                                                                                                           st er

                                                                                                                           ca e
                                                                          t
                                                                          gl x

                                                                          be

                                                                          st n

                                                                          gl ia ky

                                                                          ey

                                                                           ss al ng r

                                                                           yp pa

                                                                           ex n

                                                                           rs

                                                                           ug

                                                                                                                             bb

                                                                                                                             ol er

                                                                                                                             rb
                                                                              ar cat

                                                                                                                               on
                                                                                                                                  ar
                                                                                 s

                                                                                 s err

                                                                                                                                     a
                                                                                   ca

                                                                                                                                       as
                                                                                      t

                                                                                                                                          er
                  P r(Norfolk terrier|terrier)

                                                                                       er

                                                                                          er
                P r(Yorkshire terrier|terrier)
               P r(Bedlington terrier|terrier)                                                 WordTree1k
                                                                                         softmax                 softmax     softmax
                                   ...                                       softmax                  softmax

                                                                                                                      ...
                                                                                                                      1355

                                                                        th
                                                                           ma g

                                                                           ob er

                                                                           ph ct

                                                                           bo ome

                                                                           bo pa n

                                                                           he of

                                                                           ha

                                                                           ve

                                                                           mo

                                                                           oc h

                                                                                                                           cl

                                                                                                                              sn d

                                                                                                                              wa
   If we want to compute the absolute probability for a par-

                                                                           i
                                                                              tt

                                                                              je

                                                                              en

                                                                              dy no

                                                                              dy rt

                                                                              ad

                                                                              ir

                                                                              in

                                                                              ut

                                                                              ea

                                                                                                                              o

                                                                                                                                 ow

                                                                                                                                 ve
                                                                               n

                                                                                                                                  u
                                                                                 n
ticular node we simply follow the path through the tree to

                                                                                   wa
the root node and multiply to conditional probabilities. So

                                                                                      te
                                                                                         r
if we want to know if a picture is of a Norfolk terrier we
compute:                                                              Figure 5: Prediction on ImageNet vs WordTree. Most Ima-
                                                                      geNet models use one large softmax to predict a probability distri-
                                                                      bution. Using WordTree we perform multiple softmax operations
     P r(Norfolk terrier) = P r(Norfolk terrier|terrier)              over co-hyponyms.
            ∗P r(terrier|hunting dog)
                    ∗ . . .∗                                          and the tree of probabilities. We traverse the tree down, tak-
          ∗P r(mammal|P r(animal)                                     ing the highest confidence path at every split until we reach
           ∗P r(animal|physical object)                               some threshold and we predict that object class.
                                                                          Dataset combination with WordTree. We can use
   For classification purposes we assume that the the image           WordTree to combine multiple datasets together in a sen-
contains an object: P r(physical object) = 1.                         sible fashion. We simply map the categories in the datasets
   To validate this approach we train the Darknet-19 model            to synsets in the tree. Figure 6 shows an example of using
on WordTree built using the 1000 class ImageNet. To build             WordTree to combine the labels from ImageNet and COCO.
WordTree1k we add in all of the intermediate nodes which              WordNet is extremely diverse so we can use this technique
expands the label space from 1000 to 1369. During training            with most datasets.
we propagate ground truth labels up the tree so that if an im-            Joint classification and detection. Now that we can
age is labelled as a “Norfolk terrier” it also gets labelled as       combine datasets using WordTree we can train our joint
a “dog” and a “mammal”, etc. To compute the conditional               model on classification and detection. We want to train
probabilities our model predicts a vector of 1369 values and          an extremely large scale detector so we create our com-
we compute the softmax over all sysnsets that are hyponyms            bined dataset using the COCO detection dataset and the
of the same concept, see Figure 5.                                    top 9000 classes from the full ImageNet release. We also
   Using the same training parameters as before, our hi-              need to evaluate our method so we add in any classes from
erarchical Darknet-19 achieves 71.9% top-1 accuracy and               the ImageNet detection challenge that were not already in-
90.4% top-5 accuracy. Despite adding 369 additional con-              cluded. The corresponding WordTree for this dataset has
cepts and having our network predict a tree structure our ac-         9418 classes. ImageNet is a much larger dataset so we bal-
curacy only drops marginally. Performing classification in            ance the dataset by oversampling COCO so that ImageNet
this manner also has some benefits. Performance degrades              is only larger by a factor of 4:1.
gracefully on new or unknown object categories. For exam-                 Using this dataset we train YOLO9000. We use the base
ple, if the network sees a picture of a dog but is uncertain          YOLOv2 architecture but only 3 priors instead of 5 to limit
what type of dog it is, it will still predict “dog” with high         the output size. When our network sees a detection image
confidence but have lower confidences spread out among                we backpropagate loss as normal. For classification loss, we
the hyponyms.                                                         only backpropagate loss at or above the corresponding level
   This formulation also works for detection. Now, in-                of the label. For example, if the label is “dog” we do assign
stead of assuming every image has an object, we use                   any error to predictions further down in the tree, “German
YOLOv2’s objectness predictor to give us the value of                 Shepherd” versus “Golden Retriever”, because we do not
P r(physical object). The detector predicts a bounding box            have that information.

                                                                  7
                                                                      COCO                                                                                 diaper                 0.0
                                                                                                                                                           horizontal bar         0.0
                                                                                                                                                           rubber eraser          0.0
                                                                                                            .....
airplane apple backpack banana                 bat        bear      bed        bench bicycle         bird       70       zebra                             sunglasses             0.0
                                                                                                                                                           swimming trunks        0.0
                                                                      ImageNet                                                                             ...
                                                                                                                                                           red panda             50.7
                                                                                                            .....                                          fox                   52.1
 Afghan     African   African  African       African  African Airedale American American American               22k     zucchini
                                                                                                                                                           koala bear            54.3
  hound    chameleon crocodile elephant        grey hunting dog        alligator black bear chameleon

                                                                                                                                                           tiger                 61.0
                                             physical object          WordTree                                                                             armadillo             61.7
 animal                                      artifact                          natural object                          phenomenon

                                                                                                                                        Table 7: YOLO9000 Best and Worst Classes on ImageNet.
           dog    fish                                             equipment                    fungus
                           vehicle
  cat                                                                           plant                                                   The classes with the highest and lowest AP from the 156 weakly
                                                                                                                                        supervised classes. YOLO9000 learns good models for a variety of
                      ground         water     air
                                                                                                            vascular
                                                                                                                                        animals but struggles with new classes like clothing or equipment.
                                                                                                              plant
  tabby     Persian                                                          houseplant

          car                                           airplane

                                                                                                                                        New animals are easier to learn because the objectness pre-
                                                                                                                                        dictions generalize well from the animals in COCO. Con-
                                 biplane        jet       airbus   stealth
                                                                   fighter
                                                                               golden
                                                                                fern
                                                                                          potato
                                                                                           fern
                                                                                                     felt
                                                                                                     fern
                                                                                                                 sea    American
                                                                                                              lavender twinflower
                                                                                                                                        versely, COCO does not have bounding box label for any
                                                                                                                                        type of clothing, only for person, so YOLO9000 struggles to
                                                                                                                                        model categories like “sunglasses” or “swimming trunks”.
Figure 6: Combining datasets using WordTree hierarchy. Us-
ing the WordNet concept graph we build a hierarchical tree of vi-
sual concepts. Then we can merge datasets together by mapping                                                                           5. Conclusion
the classes in the dataset to synsets in the tree. This is a simplified
view of WordTree for illustration purposes.                                                                                                We introduce YOLOv2 and YOLO9000, real-time de-
                                                                                                                                        tection systems. YOLOv2 is state-of-the-art and faster
                                                                                                                                        than other detection systems across a variety of detection
    When it sees a classification image we only backpropa-                                                                              datasets. Furthermore, it can be run at a variety of image
gate classification loss. To do this we simply find the bound-                                                                          sizes to provide a smooth tradeoff between speed and accu-
ing box that predicts the highest probability for that class                                                                            racy.
and we compute the loss on just its predicted tree. We also                                                                                YOLO9000 is a real-time framework for detection more
assume that the predicted box overlaps what would be the                                                                                than 9000 object categories by jointly optimizing detection
ground truth label by at least .3 IOU and we backpropagate                                                                              and classification. We use WordTree to combine data from
objectness loss based on this assumption.                                                                                               various sources and our joint optimization technique to train
    Using this joint training, YOLO9000 learns to find ob-                                                                              simultaneously on ImageNet and COCO. YOLO9000 is a
jects in images using the detection data in COCO and it                                                                                 strong step towards closing the dataset size gap between de-
learns to classify a wide variety of these objects using data                                                                           tection and classification.
from ImageNet.                                                                                                                             Many of our techniques generalize outside of object de-
    We evaluate YOLO9000 on the ImageNet detection task.                                                                                tection. Our WordTree representation of ImageNet offers a
The detection task for ImageNet shares on 44 object cate-                                                                               richer, more detailed output space for image classification.
gories with COCO which means that YOLO9000 has only                                                                                     Dataset combination using hierarchical classification would
seen classification data for the majority of the test images,                                                                           be useful in the classification and segmentation domains.
not detection data. YOLO9000 gets 19.7 mAP overall with                                                                                 Training techniques like multi-scale training could provide
16.0 mAP on the disjoint 156 object classes that it has never                                                                           benefit across a variety of visual tasks.
seen any labelled detection data for. This mAP is higher                                                                                   For future work we hope to use similar techniques for
than results achieved by DPM but YOLO9000 is trained on                                                                                 weakly supervised image segmentation. We also plan to
different datasets with only partial supervision [4]. It also                                                                           improve our detection results using more powerful match-
is simultaneously detecting 9000 other object categories, all                                                                           ing strategies for assigning weak labels to classification data
in real-time.                                                                                                                           during training. Computer vision is blessed with an enor-
    When we analyze YOLO9000’s performance on Ima-                                                                                      mous amount of labelled data. We will continue looking
geNet we see it learns new species of animals well but strug-                                                                           for ways to bring different sources and structures of data
gles with learning categories like clothing and equipment.                                                                              together to make stronger models of the visual world.

                                                                                                                                    8
References                                                               [18] C. Szegedy, S. Ioffe, and V. Vanhoucke. Inception-v4,
                                                                              inception-resnet and the impact of residual connections on
 [1] S. Bell, C. L. Zitnick, K. Bala, and R. Girshick. Inside-                learning. CoRR, abs/1602.07261, 2016. 2
     outside net: Detecting objects in context with skip
                                                                         [19] C. Szegedy, W. Liu, Y. Jia, P. Sermanet, S. Reed,
     pooling and recurrent neural networks. arXiv preprint
                                                                              D. Anguelov, D. Erhan, V. Vanhoucke, and A. Rabinovich.
     arXiv:1512.04143, 2015. 6
                                                                              Going deeper with convolutions. CoRR, abs/1409.4842,
 [2] J. Deng, W. Dong, R. Socher, L.-J. Li, K. Li, and L. Fei-                2014. 5
     Fei. Imagenet: A large-scale hierarchical image database.
                                                                         [20] B. Thomee, D. A. Shamma, G. Friedland, B. Elizalde, K. Ni,
     In Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2009. CVPR
                                                                              D. Poland, D. Borth, and L.-J. Li. Yfcc100m: The new
     2009. IEEE Conference on, pages 248–255. IEEE, 2009. 1
                                                                              data in multimedia research. Communications of the ACM,
 [3] M. Everingham, L. Van Gool, C. K. Williams, J. Winn, and                 59(2):64–73, 2016. 1
     A. Zisserman. The pascal visual object classes (voc) chal-
     lenge. International journal of computer vision, 88(2):303–
     338, 2010. 1
 [4] P. F. Felzenszwalb, R. B. Girshick, and D. McAllester.
     Discriminatively trained deformable part models, release 4.
     http://people.cs.uchicago.edu/ pff/latent-release4/. 8
 [5] R. B. Girshick. Fast R-CNN. CoRR, abs/1504.08083, 2015.
     4, 5, 6
 [6] K. He, X. Zhang, S. Ren, and J. Sun. Deep residual learn-
     ing for image recognition. arXiv preprint arXiv:1512.03385,
     2015. 2, 4, 5
 [7] S. Ioffe and C. Szegedy. Batch normalization: Accelerating
     deep network training by reducing internal covariate shift.
     arXiv preprint arXiv:1502.03167, 2015. 2, 5
 [8] A. Krizhevsky, I. Sutskever, and G. E. Hinton. Imagenet
     classification with deep convolutional neural networks. In
     Advances in neural information processing systems, pages
     1097–1105, 2012. 2
 [9] M. Lin, Q. Chen, and S. Yan. Network in network. arXiv
     preprint arXiv:1312.4400, 2013. 5
[10] T.-Y. Lin, M. Maire, S. Belongie, J. Hays, P. Perona, D. Ra-
     manan, P. Dollár, and C. L. Zitnick. Microsoft coco: Com-
     mon objects in context. In European Conference on Com-
     puter Vision, pages 740–755. Springer, 2014. 1, 6
[11] W. Liu, D. Anguelov, D. Erhan, C. Szegedy, and S. E. Reed.
     SSD: single shot multibox detector. CoRR, abs/1512.02325,
     2015. 4, 5, 6
[12] G. A. Miller, R. Beckwith, C. Fellbaum, D. Gross, and K. J.
     Miller. Introduction to wordnet: An on-line lexical database.
     International journal of lexicography, 3(4):235–244, 1990.
     6
[13] J. Redmon. Darknet: Open source neural networks in c.
     http://pjreddie.com/darknet/, 2013–2016. 5
[14] J. Redmon, S. Divvala, R. Girshick, and A. Farhadi. You
     only look once: Unified, real-time object detection. arXiv
     preprint arXiv:1506.02640, 2015. 4, 5
[15] S. Ren, K. He, R. Girshick, and J. Sun. Faster r-cnn: To-
     wards real-time object detection with region proposal net-
     works. arXiv preprint arXiv:1506.01497, 2015. 2, 3, 4, 5,
     6
[16] O. Russakovsky, J. Deng, H. Su, J. Krause, S. Satheesh,
     S. Ma, Z. Huang, A. Karpathy, A. Khosla, M. Bernstein,
     A. C. Berg, and L. Fei-Fei. ImageNet Large Scale Visual
     Recognition Challenge. International Journal of Computer
     Vision (IJCV), 2015. 2
[17] K. Simonyan and A. Zisserman. Very deep convolutional
     networks for large-scale image recognition. arXiv preprint
     arXiv:1409.1556, 2014. 2, 5

                                                                     9
