---
source_id: 082
bibtex_key: kumra2020grconvnet
title: Antipodal Robotic Grasping using Generative Residual Convolutional Neural Network
year: 2020
domain_theme: Grasp Robotik
verified_pdf: 82_GR-ConvNet.pdf
char_count: 55322
---

Antipodal Robotic Grasping using
                                                             Generative Residual Convolutional Neural Network
                                                                                         Sulabh Kumra, Shirin Joshi and Ferat Sahin

                                            Abstract—In this paper, we present a modular robotic system
                                         to tackle the problem of generating and performing antipodal
                                         robotic grasps for unknown objects from the n-channel image
                                         of the scene. We propose a novel Generative Residual Convo-
                                         lutional Neural Network (GR-ConvNet) model that can gener-
                                         ate robust antipodal grasps from n-channel input at real-time
                                         speeds (∼20ms). We evaluate the proposed model architecture
arXiv:1909.04810v4 [cs.RO] 10 Jun 2021

                                         on standard datasets and a diverse set of household objects.
                                         We achieved state-of-the-art accuracy of 97.7% and 94.6% on
                                         Cornell and Jacquard grasping datasets, respectively. We also
                                         demonstrate a grasp success rate of 95.4% and 93% on household
                                         and adversarial objects, respectively, using a 7 DoF robotic arm.

                                                                 I. INTRODUCTION
                                            Robotic manipulators are constantly compared to humans
                                         due to the inherent characteristics of humans to instinctively
                                         grasp an unknown object rapidly and with ease based on their
                                         own experiences. As increasing research is being done to
                                         make the robots more intelligent, there exists a demand for
                                         a generalized technique to infer fast and robust grasps for any
                                                                                                                           Fig. 1: Proposed system overview. Inference module predict suitable
                                         kind of object that the robot encounters. The major challenge                     grasp poses for the objects in the camera's field of view. Control
                                         is being able to precisely transfer the knowledge that the robot                  module uses these grasp poses to plan and execute robot trajectories
                                         learns to novel real-world objects.                                               to perform antipodal grasps. Video: https://youtu.be/cwlEhdoxY4U
                                            We present a modular robot agnostic approach to tackle this
                                         problem of grasping unknown objects. We propose a Gener-
                                         ative Residual Convolutional Neural Network (GR-ConvNet)                          grasp poses. The control module consists of a task controller
                                         that generates antipodal grasps for every pixel in an n-channel                   that prepares and executes a plan to perform a pick and place
                                         input image. We use the term generative to distinguish our                        task using the grasp pose generated by the inference module.
                                         method from other techniques that output a grasp probability                      It communicates the required actions to the robot through a
                                         or classify grasp candidates in order to predict the best grasp.                  ROS interface using a trajectory planner and controller.
                                            Unlike the previous work done in robotic grasping [1], [2],                       The main contributions of this paper can be summarized as
                                         [3], [4], where the required grasp is predicted as a grasp                        follows:
                                         rectangle calculated by choosing the best grasp from multiple                        • We present a modular robotic system that predicts, plans,
                                         grasp probabilities, our network generates three images from                           and performs antipodal grasps for the objects in the scene.
                                         which we can infer grasp rectangles for multiple objects.                              We open-sourced the implementation of the proposed
                                         Additionally, it is possible to infer multiple grasp rectangles                        inference1 and control2 modules.
                                         for multiple objects from the output of GR-ConvNet in one-                           • We propose a novel generative residual convolutional neu-
                                         shot thereby decreasing the overall computational time.                                ral network architecture that predicts suitable antipodal
                                            Fig.1 shows an overview of the proposed system architec-                            grasp configurations for objects in the camera's field of
                                         ture. It consists of two main modules: the inference module                            view.
                                         and the control module. The inference module acquires RGB                            • We evaluate our model on publicly available grasping
                                         and aligned depth images of the scene from the RGB-D                                   datasets and achieved state-of-the-art accuracy of 97.7%
                                         camera. The images are pre-processed to match the input                                and 94.6% on Cornell and Jacquard grasping datasets,
                                         format of the GR-ConvNet. The network generates quality,                               respectively.
                                         angle, and width images, which are then used to infer antipodal                      • We demonstrate that the proposed model can be deployed
                                                                                                                                on a robotic arm to perform antipodal grasps at real-
                                           Authors are with Multi-Agent Bio-Robotics Laboratory (MABL), Rochester
                                         Institute of Technology, Rochester, NY, USA. Sulabh Kumra is also with
                                                                                                                             1 Available at https://github.com/skumra/robotic-grasping
                                         OSARO Inc., San Francisco, CA, USA.
                                           Corresponding author e-mail: sk2881@rit.edu                                       2 Available at https://github.com/skumra/baxter-pnp

                                         This work has been submitted to the IEEE for possible publication. Copyright may be transferred without notice, after which this version may no longer be accessible.
     time speeds with a success rate of 95.4% and 93% on                         TABLE I: A comparison of related work
     household and adversarial objects, respectively.                                        [1]   [2]   [4]   [20]   [21]   [22]   [23]   Ours
                                                                    Real Robot Experiments   3     7     7      3      3      7      3      3
                   II. RELATED WORK
                                                                    Adversarial Objects      7     7     7      3      7      7      7      3
   Robotic Grasping: There has been extensive on-going              Clutter                  7     7     7      3      3      7      3      3
research in the field of robotics, especially robotic grasping.     Results on Cornell       3     3     3      3      3      3      3      3
Although the problem seems to just be able to find a suitable       Results on Jacquard      7     7     7      7      7      3      7      3

grasp for an object, the actual task involves multifaceted          Code Available           3     7     7      3      7      7      7      3

elements such as- the object to be grasped, the shape of the
object, physical properties of the object and the gripper with
which it needs to be grasped among others. Early research          the help of semantic object parts. This framework combines
in this field involved hand-engineering the features [5], [6],     high-level reasoning with low-level grasping. The high-level
which can be a tedious and time-consuming task but can be          reasoning comprises object affordances, its categories, and
helpful for learning to grasp objects with multiple fingers such   task-based information while low-level reasoning uses visual
as [7], [8].                                                       shape features. This has been observed to work well in kitchen-
   Initially for obtaining a stable grasp, the mechanics and       related scenarios.
contact kinematics of the end effector in contact with the            Grasping using Uni-modal data : Johns et al. [24] used
object were studied and the grasp analysis was performed as        a simulated depth image to predict a grasp outcome for every
seen from the survey by [9], [10]. Prior work [11] in robotic      grasp pose predicted and select the best grasp by smoothing
grasping for novel objects involved using supervised learning      the predicted pose using a grasp uncertainty function. A
which was trained on synthetic data but it was limited to          generative approach to grasping is discussed by Morrison
environments such as office, kitchen, and dishwasher. Satish       et al. [20]. The Generative grasp CNN architecture generates
et al. [12] introduced a Fully Convolutional Grasp Quality         grasp poses using a depth image and the network computes
Convolutional Neural Network (FC-GQ-CNN) which pre-                grasp on a pixel-wise basis. [20] suggests that it reduces
dicted a robust grasp quality by using a data collection policy    existing shortcomings of discrete sampling and computational
and synthetic training environment. This method enabled an         complexity. Another recent approach that merely relies on
increase in the number of grasps considered to 5000 times in       depth data as the sole input to the deep CNN is as seen in
0.625s. However, the current research relies more on using the     [13].
RGB-D data to predict grasp poses. These approaches depend            Grasping using multi-modal data: There are different
wholly on deep learning techniques.                                ways of handling objects multi-modalities. Many have used
   Deep learning for grasping: Deep learning has been a hot        separate features to learn the modalities which can be compu-
topic of research since the advent of ImageNet success and         tationally exhaustive. Wang et al. [25] proposed methods that
the use of GPU's and other fast computational techniques.          consider multi-modal information as the same. Jiang et al.
Also, the availability of affordable RGB-D sensors enabled         [26] used RGB-D images to infer grasps based on a two-step
the use of deep learning techniques to learn the features of       learning process. The first step was used to narrow down the
objects directly from image data. Recent experimentations          search space and the second step was used to compute the
using deep neural networks [2], [13], [14] have demonstrated       optimal grasp rectangle from the top grasps obtained using the
that they can be used to efficiently compute stable grasps.        first method. Lenz et al. [1] used a similar two-step approach
Pinto et al. [3] used an architecture similar to AlexNet which     but with a deep learning architecture which however could not
shows that by increasing the size of the data, their CNN           work well on all types of objects and often predicted a grasp
was able to generalize better to new data. Varley et al. [15]      location that was not the best grasp for that particular object
propose an interesting approach to grasp planning through          such as in [26] the algorithm predicted the grasp for a shoe
shape completion where a 3D CNN was used to train the              was from its laces which in practice failed when the robot
network on the 3D prototype of objects on their own dataset        tried to grasp using the shoelaces while in [1] the algorithm
captured from various viewpoints. Guo et al. [16] used tactile     sometimes could not predict grasps which are more practical
data along with visual data to train a hybrid deep architecture.   using just the local information as well as due to the RGB-
Mahler et al. [17] proposed a Grasp Quality Convolutional          D sensor used. Yan et al. [27] used point cloud prediction
Neural Network (GQ-CNN) that predicts grasps from synthetic        network to generate a grasp by first preprocessing the data
point cloud data trained on Dex-Net 2.0 grasp planner dataset.     by obtaining the color, depth, and masked image and then
Levine et al. [18] discuss the use of monocular images for hand    obtaining a 3D point cloud of the object to be fed into a
to eye coordination for robotic grasping using a deep learning     critic network to predict a grasp. Chu et al. [21] propose a
framework. They use a CNN for grasp success prediction             novel architecture that can predict multiple grasps for multiple
and further use continuous servoing to continuously servo the      objects simultaneously rather than for a single object. For
manipulator to correct mistakes. Antanas et al. [19] discuss an    this, they used a multi-object dataset of their own. The model
interesting approach known as a probabilistic logic framework      was also tested on Cornell Grasp Dataset. A robotic grasping
that is said to improve the grasping capability of a robot with    method that consists of a ConvNet for object recognition and a
grasping method for manipulating the objects is discussed by        camera, and Trc converts camera space into the robot space
Ogas et al. [28]. The grasping method assumes an industry           using the camera pose calibration value.
assembly line where the object parameters are assumed to              This notation can be scaled for multiple grasps in an image.
be known in advance. Kumra et al. [4] proposed a Deep               The collective group of all the grasps can be denoted as:
CNN architecture that uses residual layers for predicting robust
grasps. The paper demonstrates that a deeper network along                                 Θ, W, Q) ∈ R3×h×w
                                                                                      G = (Θ                                    (4)
with residual layers learns better features and performs faster.    where Θ , W, and Q represents three images in the form of
Asif et al. [29] introduced a consolidated framework known as       grasp angle, grasp width and grasp quality score respectively
EnsembleNet in which the grasp generation network generates         calculated at every pixel of an image using equation (2).
four grasp representations and EnsembleNet synthesizes these
generated grasps to produce grasp scores from which the grasp                             IV. APPROACH
with the highest score gets selected.                                  We propose a dual-module system to predict, plan and
  Our work is based on similar concepts and is designed             perform antipodal grasps for the objects in the scene. The
to advance the research done in this area. Table I provides         overview of the proposed system is shown in fig.1. The
a comparison of our work to recent related work in robotic          inference module is used to predict suitable grasp poses for
grasping for unknown objects.                                       the objects in the camera's field of view. The control module
                                                                    uses these grasp poses to plan and execute robot trajectories
             III. PROBLEM FORMULATION
                                                                    to perform antipodal grasps.
   In this work, we define the problem of robotic grasping
as predicting antipodal grasps for unknown objects from an          A. Inference module
n-channel image of the scene and executing it on a robot.              The inference module consists of three parts. First, the
   Instead of the 5 dimensional grasp representation used in        input data is pre-processed where it is cropped, resized, and
[1], [2], [4], we use an improved version of grasp represen-        normalized. If the input has a depth image, it is inpainted to
tation similar to the one proposed by Morrison et al. in [20].      obtain a depth representation [30]. The 224 × 224 n-channel
We denote the grasp pose in robot frame as:                         processed input image is fed into the GR-ConvNet. It uses n-
                                                                    channel input that is not limited to a particular type of input
                      Gr = (P, Θr ,Wr , Q)                   (1)    modality such as a depth-only or RGB-only image as our
where, P = (x, y, z) is tool tip's center position, Θr is tools     input image. Thus, making it generalized for any kind of input
rotation around the z-axis, Wr is the required width for the        modality. The second generates three images as grasp angle,
tool, and Q is the grasp quality score.                             grasp width, and grasp quality score as the output using the
   We detect a grasp from an n-channel image I = Rn×h×w             features extracted from the pre-processed image using GR-
with height h and width w, which can be defined as:                 ConvNet. The third infers grasp poses from the three output
                                                                    images.
                      Gi = (x, y, Θi ,Wi , Q)                (2)
                                                                    B. Control module
where (x, y) corresponds to the center of grasp in image               The control module mainly incorporates a task controller
coordinates, Θi is the rotation in camera's frame of reference,     that performs tasks such as pick-and-place and calibration. The
Wi is the required width in image coordinates, and Q is the         controller requests a grasp pose from the inference module
same scalar as in equation (1).                                     which returns the grasp pose with the highest quality score.
   The grasp quality score Q is the quality of the grasp at every   The grasp pose is then converted from camera coordinates into
point in the image and is indicated as a score value between        robot coordinates using the transform calculated from hand-
0 and 1 where a value that is in proximity to 1 indicates a         eye calibration [31]. Further, the grasp pose in robot frame
greater chance of grasp success. Θi indicates the antipodal         is used to plan a trajectory to perform the pick and place
measurement of the amount of angular rotation required at           action using inverse kinematics through a ROS interface. The
each point to grasp the object of interest and is represented as    robot then executes the planned trajectory. Due to our modular
a value in the range [ −π   π
                        2 , 2 ]. Wi is the required width which     approach and ROS integration, this system can be adapted for
is represented as a measure of uniform depth and indicated as       any robotic arm.
a value in the range of [0,Wmax ] pixels. Wmax is the maximum
width of the antipodal gripper.                                     C. Model architecture
   To execute a grasp obtained in the image space on a robot,          Fig. 2 shows the proposed GR-ConvNet model, which is a
we can apply the following transformations to convert the           generative architecture that takes in an n-channel input image
image coordinates to robot's frame of reference.                    and generates pixel-wise grasps in the form of three images.
                       Gr = Trc (Tci (Gi ))                  (3)    The n-channel image is passed through three convolutional
                                                                    layers, followed by five residual layers and convolution trans-
where, Tci is a transformation that converts image space            pose layers to generate four images. These output images
into camera's 3D space using the intrinsic parameters of the        consist of grasp quality score, required angle in the form
                                      Fig. 2: Proposed Generative Residual Convolutional Neural Network

of cos 2Θ, and sin 2Θ as well as the required width of the                       The models were trained using the Adam optimizer [32]
end effector. Since the antipodal grasp is uniform around ± π2 ,              and standard backpropagation and mini-batch SGD technique
we extract the angle in the form of two elements cos 2Θ and                   [33]. The learning rate was set as 10−3 and a mini-batch size
sin 2Θ that output distinct values that are combined to form                  of 8 was used. We trained the model using three random seeds,
the required angle.                                                           and report the average of the three seeds.
   The convolutional layers extract the features from the input
image. The output of the convolutional layer is then fed                      E. Loss function
into 5 residual layers. As we know, accuracy increases with                      We analyzed the performance of various loss functions for
increasing the number of layers. However, it is not true when                 our network and after running a few trials found that in order
you exceed a certain number of layers, which results in                       to handle exploding gradients, the smooth L1 loss also known
the problem of vanishing gradients and dimensionality error,                  as Huber loss works best. We define our loss as :
thereby causing saturation and degradation in the accuracy.                                                         1 k
Thus, using residual layers enables us to better learn the                                         L (Gi , G
                                                                                                           bi ) =       zk               (6)
                                                                                                                    n∑
identity functions by using skip connections. After passing
the image through these convolutional and residual layers, the                where zi is given by:
size of the image is reduced to 56 × 56, which can be difficult                             
                                                                                             0.5(Gi − Gci )2 ,     i f Gi k − G
                                                                                                                               ci < 1
to interpret. Therefore, to make it easier to interpret and                                         k     k                      k
                                                                                       zk =                                              (7)
retain spatial features of the image after convolution operation,                            Gi − Gci − 0.5            otherwise
                                                                                                 k    k
we up-sample the image by using a convolution transpose
operation. Thus, we obtain the same size of the image at the                  Gi is the grasp generated by the network and G
                                                                                                                           bi is the ground
output as the size of the input.                                              truth grasp.
   Our network has a total of 1,900,900 parameters which
indicate that our network is comparatively shorter as opposed                                      V. EVALUATION
to other networks [4], [22], [29]. Thereby making it com-                     A. Datasets
putationally less expensive and faster in contrast to other                      There are a limited number of publicly available antipodal
architectures using similar grasp prediction techniques that                  grasping datasets. Table II shows a summary of the publicly
contain millions of parameters and complex architectures. The                 available antipodal grasping datasets. We used two of these
lightweight nature of the model makes it suitable for closed-                 datasets for training and evaluating our model. The first one
loop control at a rate of up to 50 Hz.                                        is the Cornell grasp dataset [26], which is the most common
D. Training methodology                                                       grasping dataset used to benchmark results, and the second
                                                                              one is a more recent Jacquard grasping dataset [34], which is
   For a dataset
                1 having           objects D = {D1 . . . Dn }, input scene   more than 50 times bigger the Cornell grasp dataset.
images  I =      I  . . . I n and successful grasps in image frame

Gi = g11 . . . g1m1 . . . g21 . . . gnmn , we can train our model end-to-
     
                                                                                    TABLE II: Summary of Antipodal Grasping Datasets
end to learn the mapping function γ(I, D) = Gi by minimizing
the negative log-likelihood of Gi conditioned on the input                            Dataset    Modality   Objects    Images   Grasps
image scene I, which is given by:                                                     Cornell    RGB-D       240        1035     8019
                                                                                      Dexnet      Depth      1500       6.7M    6.7M
                          1 n 1 mi
                      −     ∑ mi ∑ logγ(gij |I i )
                          n i=1
                                                                       (5)            Jacquard   RGB-D       11k         54k    1.1M
                                 j=1
                                                                       A. Setup
                                                                          To get the scene image for the real-world experiments, we
                                                                       used the Intel RealSense Depth Camera D435 that uses stereo
                                                                       vision to calculate depth. It consists of a pair of RGB sensors,
                                                                       depth sensors, and an infrared projector. The experiments were
                                                                       conducted on the 7-DoF Baxter Robot by Rethink Robotics.
                                                                       A two-fingered parallel gripper was used for grasping the
                                                                       test objects. The camera was mounted behind the robot arm
               (a)                               (b)                   looking over the shoulder.
Fig. 3: Objects used for robotic grasping experiments. (a) Household
                                                                          The execution times for our proposed GR-ConvNet are
test objects. (b) Adversarial test objects.                            measured on a system running Ubuntu 16.04 with an Intel
                                                                       Core i7-7800X CPU clocked at 3.50 GHz and an NVIDIA
                                                                       GeForce GTX 1080 Ti graphics card with CUDA 10.
   The extended version of Cornell Grasp Dataset comprises             B. Household test objects
of 1035 RGB-D images with a resolution of 640 × 480 pixels
                                                                          A total of 35 household objects were chosen for testing the
of 240 different real objects with 5110 positive and 2909
                                                                       performance of our system. Each object was tested individu-
negative grasps. The annotated ground truth consists of several
                                                                       ally for 10 different positions and orientations which resulted
grasp rectangles representing grasping possibilities per object.
                                                                       in 350 grasp attempts. The objects were chosen such that each
However, it is a small dataset for training our GR-ConvNet
                                                                       object represented different shape, size, and geometry; and had
model, therefore we create an augmented dataset using random
                                                                       minimum or no resemblance with each other. We created a mix
crops, zooms, and rotations which effectively has 51k grasp
                                                                       of deformable, difficult to grasp, reflective, and small objects
examples. Only positively labeled grasps from the dataset were
                                                                       that need high precision. Fig. 3a shows the set of objects that
considered during training.
                                                                       were used for the experiments.
   The Jacquard Grasping Dataset is built on a subset of
ShapeNet which is a large CAD models dataset. It consists              C. Adversarial test objects
of 54k RGB-D images and annotations of successful grasping                Another set consisting of 10 adversarial objects with com-
positions based on grasp attempts performed in a simulated             plex geometry was used to evaluate the accuracy of our
environment. In total, it has 1.1M grasp examples. As this             proposed system. These 3D printed objects have abstract
dataset was large enough to train our model, no augmentation           geometry with indefinite surfaces and edges that are hard
was performed.                                                         to perceive and grasp. Each of these objects was tested in
                                                                       isolation for 10 different orientations and positions and made
B. Grasp Detection Metric                                              up of a total of 100 grasp attempts. Fig. 3b shows the
  For a fair comparison of our results, we use the rectangle           adversarial objects used during the experiments.
metric [26] proposed by Jiang et al. to report the performance         D. Objects in clutter
of our system. According to the proposed rectangle metric, a
                                                                          Industrial applications such as warehouses require objects
grasp is considered to be valid when it satisfies the following
                                                                       to be picked in isolation as well as from a clutter. Therefore, to
two conditions:
                                                                       perform our experiments on cluttered objects we carried out 10
  • The intersection over union (IoU) score between the                runs with 60 unseen objects. A set of distinct objects for each
    ground truth grasp rectangle and the predicted grasp               run was selected from the previously unseen novel objects to
    rectangle is more than 25%.                                        create a cluttered scene. An example of this is shown in fig.
  • The offset between the grasp orientation of the predicted          5. Each run is terminated when there are no objects in the
    grasp rectangle and the ground truth rectangle is less than        camera's field of view.
    30◦ .
                                                                                              VII. RESULTS
   This metric requires a grasp rectangle representation, but
our model predicts image-based grasp representation Gbi using             In this section, we discuss the results of our experiments.
equation 2. Therefore, in order to convert from image-based            We evaluate GR-ConvNet on both the Cornell and the Jacquard
grasp representation to rectangle representation, the value            dataset to examine the outcomes for each of the datasets based
corresponding to each pixel in the output image is mapped              on factors such as the size of the dataset, type of training data
to its equivalent rectangle representation.                            and demonstrate our model's capacity to generalize to any kind
                                                                       of object. Further, we show that our model is able to not only
                     VI. EXPERIMENTS                                   generate a single grasp for isolated objects but also multiple
                                                                       grasps for multiple objects in clutter.
   In our experiments, we evaluate our approach on: (i) two               Fig. 4 shows the qualitative results obtained on previously
standard datasets, (ii) household objects, (iii) adversarial ob-       unseen objects. The figure consists of output in image repre-
jects and (iv) objects in clutter.                                     sentation Gi in the form of grasp quality score Q, the required
Fig. 4: Qualitative results. Quality, angle and width are the output of GR-ConNet which are used to infer grasp rectangle. (a) Unseen objects
from Cornell dataset (b) Unseen objects from Jacquard dataset (c) Single household object (d) Multiple grasps for multiple objects (e) Poor
grasp for transparent object

angle for grasping Θi , and the required gripper width Wi .                            TABLE III: Results on the Cornell Dataset
It also includes the output in the form of a rectangle grasp               Authors            Algorithm               Accuracy (%)   Speed
representation projected on the RGB image.                                                                            IW     OW      (ms)
   Further, we demonstrate the viability of our method in                  Jiang [26]         Fast Search             60.5   58.3    5000
comparison to other methods by gauging the performance
                                                                           Lenz [1]           SAE, struct. reg.       73.9   75.6    1350
of our network on different types of objects. Additionally,
                                                                           Redmon [2]         AlexNet, MultiGrasp     88.0   87.1     76
we evaluate the performance of our network on different
                                                                           Wang [25]          Two-stage closed-loop   85.3    -       140
input modalities. The modalities that the model was tested on
                                                                           Asif [35]          STEM-CaRFs              88.2   87.5      -
included uni-modal input such as depth only and RGB only
                                                                           Kumra [4]          ResNet-50x2             89.2   88.9     103
input images; and multi-modal input such as RGB-D images.
Table III show that our network performed better on multi-                 Morrison [20]      GG-CNN                  73.0   69.0     19
modal data as compared to uni-modal data since multiple input              Guo [16]           ZF-net                  93.2   89.1      -
modalities enabled better learning of the input features.                  Zhou [22]          FCGN, ResNet-101        97.7   96.6     117
                                                                           Karaoguz [36]      GRPN                    88.7    -       200
A. Cornell Dataset                                                         Asif [23]          GraspNet                90.2   90.6     24
                                                                                              GR-ConvNet-D            93.2   94.3     19
   We follow a cross-validation setup as in previous works
                                                                           Our                GR-ConvNet-RGB          96.6   95.5     19
[1], [2], [4], [23], [16], using image-wise (IW) and object-
                                                                                              GR-ConvNet-RGB-D        97.7   96.6     20
wise (OW) data splits. Table III shows the performance of
our system for multiple modalities in comparison to other
techniques used for grasp prediction. We obtained state-of-
the-art accuracy of 97.7% on Image-wise split and 96.6%                 per image suggests that GR-ConvNet is suitable for real-time
on Object-wise split using RGB-D data, outperforming all                closed-loop applications.
competitive methods as seen in table III. The results obtained
on the previously unseen objects in the dataset depict that             B. Jacquard Dataset
our network can predict robust grasps for different types of              For the Jacquard dataset, we trained our network on 90%
objects in the validation set. The data augmentation performed          of the dataset images and validated on 10% of the remaining
on the Cornell grasp dataset improved the overall performance           dataset. As the Jacquard dataset is much larger than the Cornell
of the network. Further, the recorded prediction speed of 20ms          dataset, no data augmentation was required. We performed
             TABLE IV: Results on the Jacquard Dataset

       Authors          Algorithm            Accuracy (%)
       Depierre [34]    Jacquard                 74.2
       Morrison [20]    GG-CNN2                   84
       Zhou [22]        FCGN, ResNet-101         91.8
                        GR-ConvNet - D           93.7
       Our              GR-ConvNet - RGB         91.8
                        GR-ConvNet - RGB-D       94.6

experiments on the Jacquard dataset using multiple modalities
and obtained state-of-the-art results with an accuracy of 94.6%
using RGB-D data as the input. Table IV shows that our
network not only gives the best results on the Cornell grasp
dataset but also outperforms other methods on the Jacquard
dataset.
C. Grasping novel objects
   Along with the state-of-the-art results on two standard
datasets, we also demonstrate that our system equally out-
performs in robotic grasping experiments for novel real-world
objects. We used 35 household and 10 adversarial objects to
evaluate the performance of our system in the physical world
using the Baxter robotic arm. Each of the objects was tested for   Fig. 5: Example of robot grasping adversarial (top) and household
10 different positions and orientations. The robot performed       (bottom) objects. See attached video for complete run. (a) Grasp pose
334 successful grasps of the total 350 grasp attempts on           generated by inference module. (b) Robot approaching the grasp pose.
household objects resulting in an accuracy of 95.4% and 93         (c) Robot grasping the object. (d) Robot retracting after successful
                                                                   grasp.
successful grasps out of 100 grasp attempts on adversarial
objects giving an accuracy of 93%. Table V shows our results             TABLE V: Results from robotic grasping experiments
in comparison to other deep learning based approaches in
robotic grasping.                                                          Approach    Household Objects    Adversarial Objects
   The results obtained in table V and fig. 4 indicates that GR-                          Accuracy (%)          Accuracy (%)
ConvNet is able to generalize well to new objects that it has              [1]             89 (89/100)                -
never seen before. The model was able to generate grasps for               [3]            73 (109/150)                -
all the objects except for a transparent bottle.                           [20]           92 (110/120)           84 (67/80)
                                                                           [21]            89 (89/100)                -
D. Objects in clutter
                                                                           Ours          95.4 (334/350)          93 (93/100)
   Along with predicting optimum grasps for novel real ob-
jects, our robust model is able to predict multiple antipodal
grasps for multiple objects in clutter. Each run was performed
with as well as without object replacement, and we achieved a      from the gripper in spite of the gripper being closed were the
grasp success of 93.5% by averaging grasp success for every        most common ones. This could be attributed to the inaccurate
successful grasp attempt in each run. Despite the model being      depth information coming from the camera and the gripper
trained only on isolated objects, it was able to efficiently       misalignment due to collision between the gripper and nearby
predict grasps for manifold objects. Moreover, fig. 4(d) shows     objects.
grasps predicted for multiple objects and fig. 5 illustrates          Another case where the model was unable to produce a good
robot grasping household and adversarial objects in cluttered      grasp was for the transparent bottle as seen in fig. 4(e). This
environments. This demonstrates that GR-ConvNet generalizes        could be due to inaccurate depth data captured by the camera
to all types of objects and can predict robust grasps for          because of possible object reflections. However, by combining
multiple objects in clutter.                                       depth data along with RGB data, the model was still able to
                                                                   generate a fairly good grasp for the transparent objects.
E. Failure case analysis
                                                                                        VIII. CONCLUSION
   In our experimental results, there are only a few cases
that can be accounted for as failures. Of them, the objects          We presented a modular solution for grasping novel objects
that had extremely low grasp scores and those that slipped         using our Generative Residual Convolutional Neural Network
that uses n-channel input data to generate images that can                       [13] P. Schmidt, N. Vahrenkamp, M. Wächter, and T. Asfour, “Grasping of
be used to infer grasp rectangles for each pixel in an image.                         unknown objects using deep convolutional neural networks based on
                                                                                      depth images,” in 2018 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and
We evaluated the GR-ConvNet on two standard datasets, the                             Automation (ICRA). IEEE, 2018, pp. 6831–6838.
Cornell grasp dataset and the Jacquard dataset and obtained                      [14] A. Zeng, S. Song, K.-T. Yu, E. Donlon, F. R. Hogan, M. Bauza, D. Ma,
state-of-the-art results on both the datasets. We also validated                      O. Taylor, M. Liu, E. Romo, et al., “Robotic pick-and-place of novel
                                                                                      objects in clutter with multi-affordance grasping and cross-domain image
the proposed system on novel real objects in clutter using                            matching,” in 2018 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and
a robotic arm. The results demonstrate that our system can                            Automation (ICRA). IEEE, 2018, pp. 1–8.
predict and perform accurate grasps for previously unseen                        [15] J. Varley, C. DeChant, A. Richardson, J. Ruales, and P. Allen, “Shape
objects. Moreover, the low inference time of our model makes                          completion enabled robotic grasping,” in 2017 IEEE/RSJ International
                                                                                      Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS). IEEE, 2017, pp.
the system suitable for closed-loop robotic grasping.                                 2442–2447.
   In future work, we would like to extend our solution for                      [16] D. Guo, F. Sun, H. Liu, T. Kong, B. Fang, and N. Xi, “A hybrid deep
different types of grippers used such as single and multiple                          architecture for robotic grasp detection,” in 2017 IEEE International
                                                                                      Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA). IEEE, 2017, pp.
suction cups and multi-fingered grippers. We would also like                          1609–1614.
to use depth prediction techniques to accurately predict depth                   [17] J. Mahler, J. Liang, S. Niyaz, M. Laskey, R. Doan, X. Liu, J. A. Ojea,
for reflective objects, which can aid in improving the grasp                          and K. Goldberg, “Dex-net 2.0: Deep learning to plan robust grasps
                                                                                      with synthetic point clouds and analytic grasp metrics,” arXiv preprint
prediction accuracy for reflective objects like the bottle.                           arXiv:1703.09312, 2017.
                                                                                 [18] S. Levine, P. Pastor, A. Krizhevsky, J. Ibarz, and D. Quillen, “Learning
                         ACKNOWLEDGMENT                                               hand-eye coordination for robotic grasping with deep learning and large-
                                                                                      scale data collection,” The International Journal of Robotics Research,
   The authors acknowledge Research Computing [37] at the                             vol. 37, no. 4-5, pp. 421–436, 2018.
Rochester Institute of Technology for providing computational                    [19] L. Antanas, P. Moreno, M. Neumann, R. P. de Figueiredo, K. Kersting,
                                                                                      J. Santos-Victor, and L. De Raedt, “Semantic and geometric reason-
resources and support that have contributed to the research                           ing for robotic grasping: a probabilistic logic approach,” Autonomous
results reported in this publication.                                                 Robots, vol. 43, no. 6, pp. 1393–1418, 2019.
                                                                                 [20] D. Morrison, P. Corke, and J. Leitner, “Learning robust, real-time, reac-
                              R EFERENCES                                             tive robotic grasping,” The International Journal of Robotics Research,
                                                                                      p. 0278364919859066, 2019.
 [1] I. Lenz, H. Lee, and A. Saxena, “Deep learning for detecting robotic        [21] F.-J. Chu, R. Xu, and P. A. Vela, “Real-world multiobject, multigrasp
     grasps,” The International Journal of Robotics Research, vol. 34, no.            detection,” IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, vol. 3, no. 4, pp.
     4-5, pp. 705–724, 2015.                                                          3355–3362, 2018.
 [2] J. Redmon and A. Angelova, “Real-time grasp detection using convo-          [22] X. Zhou, X. Lan, H. Zhang, Z. Tian, Y. Zhang, and N. Zheng, “Fully
     lutional neural networks,” in 2015 IEEE International Conference on              convolutional grasp detection network with oriented anchor box,” in
     Robotics and Automation (ICRA). IEEE, 2015, pp. 1316–1322.                       2018 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and
 [3] L. Pinto and A. Gupta, “Supersizing self-supervision: Learning to grasp          Systems (IROS). IEEE, 2018, pp. 7223–7230.
     from 50k tries and 700 robot hours,” in 2016 IEEE international             [23] U. Asif, J. Tang, and S. Harrer, “Graspnet: An efficient convolutional
     conference on robotics and automation (ICRA). IEEE, 2016, pp. 3406–              neural network for real-time grasp detection for low-powered devices.”
     3413.                                                                            in IJCAI, 2018, pp. 4875–4882.
 [4] S. Kumra and C. Kanan, “Robotic grasp detection using deep convolu-         [24] E. Johns, S. Leutenegger, and A. J. Davison, “Deep learning a grasp
     tional neural networks,” in 2017 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on            function for grasping under gripper pose uncertainty,” in 2016 IEEE/RSJ
     Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS). IEEE, 2017, pp. 769–776.                  International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS).
 [5] J. Maitin-Shepard, M. Cusumano-Towner, J. Lei, and P. Abbeel, “Cloth             IEEE, 2016, pp. 4461–4468.
     grasp point detection based on multiple-view geometric cues with appli-     [25] Z. Wang, Z. Li, B. Wang, and H. Liu, “Robot grasp detection using mul-
     cation to robotic towel folding,” in 2010 IEEE International Conference          timodal deep convolutional neural networks,” Advances in Mechanical
     on Robotics and Automation. IEEE, 2010, pp. 2308–2315.                           Engineering, vol. 8, no. 9, p. 1687814016668077, 2016.
 [6] D. Kragic and H. I. Christensen, “Robust visual servoing,” The Interna-     [26] Y. Jiang, S. Moseson, and A. Saxena, “Efficient grasping from rgbd
     tional Journal of Robotics Research, vol. 22, no. 10-11, pp. 923–939,            images: Learning using a new rectangle representation,” in 2011 IEEE
     2003.                                                                            International Conference on Robotics and Automation. IEEE, 2011,
 [7] M. Kopicki, R. Detry, M. Adjigble, R. Stolkin, A. Leonardis, and J. L.           pp. 3304–3311.
     Wyatt, “One-shot learning and generation of dexterous grasps for novel      [27] X. Yan, M. Khansari, J. Hsu, Y. Gong, Y. Bai, S. Pirk, and H. Lee, “Data-
     objects,” The International Journal of Robotics Research, vol. 35, no. 8,        efficient learning for sim-to-real robotic grasping using deep point cloud
     pp. 959–976, 2016.                                                               prediction networks,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1906.08989, 2019.
 [8] J. Bohg, A. Morales, T. Asfour, and D. Kragic, “Data-driven grasp
                                                                                 [28] E. Ogas, L. Avila, G. Larregay, and D. Moran, “A robotic grasping
     synthesis—a survey,” IEEE Transactions on Robotics, vol. 30, no. 2,
                                                                                      method using convnets,” in 2019 Argentine Conference on Electronics
     pp. 289–309, 2013.
                                                                                      (CAE). IEEE, 2019, pp. 21–26.
 [9] A. Bicchi and V. Kumar, “Robotic grasping and contact: A review,”
     in Proceedings 2000 ICRA. Millennium Conference. IEEE International         [29] U. Asif, J. Tang, and S. Harrer, “Ensemblenet: Improving grasp detection
     Conference on Robotics and Automation. Symposia Proceedings (Cat.                using an ensemble of convolutional neural networks,” in BMVC, 2018.
     No. 00CH37065), vol. 1. IEEE, 2000, pp. 348–353.                            [30] H. Xue, S. Zhang, and D. Cai, “Depth image inpainting: Improving
[10] K. B. Shimoga, “Robot grasp synthesis algorithms: A survey,” The                 low rank matrix completion with low gradient regularization,” IEEE
     International Journal of Robotics Research, vol. 15, no. 3, pp. 230–             Transactions on Image Processing, vol. 26, no. 9, pp. 4311–4320, 2017.
     266, 1996.                                                                  [31] K. H. Strobl and G. Hirzinger, “Optimal hand-eye calibration,” in 2006
[11] A. Saxena, J. Driemeyer, and A. Y. Ng, “Robotic grasping of novel                IEEE/RSJ international conference on intelligent robots and systems.
     objects using vision,” The International Journal of Robotics Research,           IEEE, 2006, pp. 4647–4653.
     vol. 27, no. 2, pp. 157–173, 2008.                                          [32] J. B. Diederik P. Kingma, “Adam: A method for stochastic optimization,”
[12] V. Satish, J. Mahler, and K. Goldberg, “On-policy dataset synthesis              International Conference for Learning Representations, 2015.
     for learning robot grasping policies using fully convolutional deep         [33] A. Nitanda, “Stochastic proximal gradient descent with acceleration
     networks,” IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, vol. 4, no. 2, pp.              techniques,” in Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems,
     1357–1364, 2019.                                                                 2014, pp. 1574–1582.
[34] A. Depierre, E. Dellandréa, and L. Chen, “Jacquard: A large scale dataset
     for robotic grasp detection,” in IEEE/RSJ International Conference on
     Intelligent Robots and Systems, 2018.
[35] U. Asif, M. Bennamoun, and F. A. Sohel, “Rgb-d object recognition and
     grasp detection using hierarchical cascaded forests,” IEEE Transactions
     on Robotics, 2017.
[36] H. Karaoguz and P. Jensfelt, “Object detection approach for robot
     grasp detection,” in 2019 International Conference on Robotics and
     Automation (ICRA). IEEE, 2019, pp. 4953–4959.
[37] Rochester Institute of Technology, “Research computing services,”
     2019. [Online]. Available: https://www.rit.edu/researchcomputing/
