---
source_id: 091
bibtex_key: chen2017mv3d
title: Multi-View 3D Object Detection Network for Autonomous Driving
year: 2017
domain_theme: Deteksi 3D
verified_pdf: 91_MV3D.pdf
char_count: 61460
---

Multi-View 3D Object Detection Network for Autonomous Driving

                                                                      Xiaozhi Chen1 , Huimin Ma1 , Ji Wan2 , Bo Li2 , Tian Xia2
                                                                   1
                                                                     Department of Electronic Engineering, Tsinghua University
                                                                                           2
                                                                                             Baidu Inc.
                                                   {chenxz12@mails., mhmpub@}tsinghua.edu.cn, {wanji, libo24, xiatian}@baidu.com
arXiv:1611.07759v3 [cs.CV] 22 Jun 2017

                                                                 Abstract                                then perform region-based recognition using the Fast R-
                                                                                                         CNN [10] pipeline. Methods based on LIDAR point cloud
                                            This paper aims at high-accuracy 3D object detection in      usually achieve more accurate 3D locations while image-
                                         autonomous driving scenario. We propose Multi-View 3D           based methods have higher accuracy in terms of 2D box
                                         networks (MV3D), a sensory-fusion framework that takes          evaluation. [11, 8] combine LIDAR and images for 2D
                                         both LIDAR point cloud and RGB images as input and pre-         detection by employing early or late fusion schemes. How-
                                         dicts oriented 3D bounding boxes. We encode the sparse          ever, for the task of 3D object detection, which is more chal-
                                         3D point cloud with a compact multi-view representation.        lenging, a well-designed model is required to make use of
                                         The network is composed of two subnetworks: one for 3D          the strength of multiple modalities.
                                         object proposal generation and another for multi-view fea-          In this paper, we propose a Multi-View 3D object detec-
                                         ture fusion. The proposal network generates 3D candidate        tion network (MV3D) which takes multimodal data as input
                                         boxes efficiently from the bird’s eye view representation of    and predicts the full 3D extent of objects in 3D space. The
                                         3D point cloud. We design a deep fusion scheme to combine       main idea for utilizing multimodal information is to perform
                                         region-wise features from multiple views and enable inter-      region-based feature fusion. We first propose a multi-view
                                         actions between intermediate layers of different paths. Ex-     encoding scheme to obtain a compact and effective repre-
                                         periments on the challenging KITTI benchmark show that          sentation for sparse 3D point cloud. As illustrated in Fig. 1,
                                         our approach outperforms the state-of-the-art by around         the multi-view 3D detection network consists of two parts:
                                         25% and 30% AP on the tasks of 3D localization and 3D           a 3D Proposal Network and a Region-based Fusion Net-
                                         detection. In addition, for 2D detection, our approach ob-      work. The 3D proposal network utilizes a bird’s eye view
                                         tains 10.3% higher AP than the state-of-the-art on the hard     representation of point cloud to generate highly accurate
                                         data among the LIDAR-based methods.                             3D candidate boxes. The benefit of 3D object proposals
                                                                                                         is that it can be projected to any views in 3D space. The
                                                                                                         multi-view fusion network extracts region-wise features by
                                         1. Introduction                                                 projecting 3D proposals to the feature maps from mulitple
                                            3D object detection plays an important role in the vi-       views. We design a deep fusion approach to enable inter-
                                         sual perception system of Autonomous driving cars. Mod-         actions of intermediate layers from different views. Com-
                                         ern self-driving cars are commonly equipped with multiple       bined with drop-path training [15] and auxiliary loss, our
                                         sensors, such as LIDAR and cameras. Laser scanners have         approach shows superior performance over the early/late fu-
                                         the advantage of accurate depth information while cameras       sion scheme. Given the multi-view feature representation,
                                         preserve much more detailed semantic information. The fu-       the network performs oriented 3D box regression which
                                         sion of LIDAR point cloud and RGB images should be able         predict accurate 3D location, size and orientation of objects
                                         to achieve higher performance and safty to self-driving cars.   in 3D space.
                                            The focus of this paper is on 3D object detection utiliz-       We evaluate our approach for the tasks of 3D proposal
                                         ing both LIDAR and image data. We aim at highly accu-           generation, 3D localization, 3D detection and 2D detec-
                                         rate 3D localization and recognition of objects in the road     tion on the challenging KITTI [9] object detection bench-
                                         scene. Recent LIDAR-based methods place 3D windows              mark. Experiments show that our 3D proposals signifi-
                                         in 3D voxel grids to score the point cloud [26, 7] or ap-       cantly outperforms recent 3D proposal methods 3DOP [4]
                                         ply convolutional networks to the front view point map in       and Mono3D [3]. In particular, with only 300 proposals, we
                                         a dense box prediction scheme [17]. Image-based meth-           obtain 99.1% and 91% 3D recall at Intersection-over-Union
                                         ods [4, 3] typically first generate 3D box proposals and        (IoU) threshold of 0.25 and 0.5, respectively. The LIDAR-
                                     3D Proposal Network                                                 Region-based Fusion Network

                                                            4x deconv          ROI
                                                                            pooling

                                      2x deconv
                                            Objectness
    LIDAR Bird view    conv layers           Classifier
         (BV)                                                 3D                Bird view
                                                           Proposals            Proposals
                                             3D Box
                                            Regressor
                                                                                Front view
                                                                                Proposals                                                   Multiclass
                                                                4x deconv                                                                   Classifier
                                                                               ROI
                                                                            pooling
                                                                                                 M             M                 M     M
    LIDAR Front view                                                                                                                         3D Box
                                                                                                                                            Regressor
          (FV)         conv layers
                                                                                  Image
                                                                                Proposals

                                                                               ROI
                                                           2x deconv        pooling

     Image (RGB)
                       conv layers

Figure 1: Multi-View 3D object detection network (MV3D): The network takes the bird’s eye view and front view of
LIDAR point cloud as well as an image as input. It first generates 3D object proposals from bird’s eye view map and project
them to three views. A deep fusion network is used to combine region-wise features obtained via ROI pooling for each view.
The fused features are used to jointly predict object class and do oriented 3D box regression.

based variant of our approach achieves around 25% higher                                     3D Object Detection in Images. 3DVP [28] introduces
accuracy in 3D localization task and 30% higher 3D Aver-                                     3D voxel patterns and employ a set of ACF detectors to
age Precision (AP) in the task of 3D object detection. It                                    do 2D detection and 3D pose estimation. 3DOP [4] recon-
also outperforms all other LIDAR-based methods by 10.3%                                      structs depth from stereo images and uses an energy mini-
AP for 2D detection on KITTI’s hard test set. When com-                                      mization approach to generate 3D box proposals, which are
bined with images, further improvements are achieved over                                    fed to an R-CNN [10] pipeline for object recognition. While
the LIDAR-based results.                                                                     Mono3D [3] shares the same pipeline with 3DOP, it gener-
                                                                                             ates 3D proposals from monocular images. [31, 32] intro-
                                                                                             duces a detailed geometry representation of objects using
2. Related Work
                                                                                             3D wireframe models. To incorporate temporal informa-
   We briefly review existing work on 3D object detection                                    tion, some work[6, 21] combine structure from motion and
from point cloud and images, multimodal fusion methods                                       ground estimation to lift 2D detection boxes to 3D bounding
and 3D object proposals.                                                                     boxes. Image-based methods usually rely on accurate depth
                                                                                             estimation or landmark detection. Our work shows how to
                                                                                             incorporate LIDAR point cloud to improve 3D localization.
3D Object Detection in Point Cloud. Most existing
methods encode 3D point cloud with voxel grid representa-
tion. Sliding Shapes [22] and Vote3D [26] apply SVM clas-                                    Multimodal Fusion Only a few work exist that exploit
sifers on 3D grids encoded with geometry features. Some                                      multiple modalities of data in the context of autonomous
recently proposed methods [23, 7, 16] improve feature rep-                                   driving. [11] combines images, depth and optical flow us-
resentation with 3D convolutions.networks, which, how-                                       ing a mixture-of-experts framework for 2D pedestrian de-
ever require expensive computations. In addition to the 3D                                   tection. [8] fuses RGB and depth images in the early stage
voxel representation, VeloFCN [17] projects point cloud to                                   and trains pose-based classifiers for 2D detection. In this
the front view, obtaining a 2D point map. They apply a                                       paper, we design a deep fusion approach inspired by Frac-
fully convolutional network on the 2D point map and pre-                                     talNet [15] and Deeply-Fused Net [27]. In FractalNet, a
dict 3D boxes densely from the convolutional feature maps.                                   base module is iteratively repeated to construct a network
[24, 18, 12] investigate volumetric and multi-view repre-                                    with exponentially increasing paths. Similarly, [27] con-
sentation of point cloud for 3D object classification. In this                               structs deeply-fused networks by combining shallow and
work, we encode 3D point cloud with multi-view feature                                       deep subnetworks. Our network differs from them by using
maps, enabling region-based representation for multimodal                                    the same base network for each column and adding auxil-
fusion.                                                                                      iary paths and losses for regularization.
                                                                                 Height

                                                                                 Distance

         Height Maps              Density             Intensity                  Intensity

                       (a) Bird’s eye view features                      (b) Front view features              (c) RGB image
                                                Figure 2: Input features of the MV3D network.

3D Object Proposals Similarly to 2D object propos-                       indicates the number of points in each cell. To normalize
als [25, 33, 2], 3D object proposal methods generate a small             the feature, it is computed as min(1.0, log(N  +1)
                                                                                                                   log(64) ), where N
set of 3D candidate boxes in order to cover most of the ob-              is the number of points in the cell. Note that the intensity
jects in 3D space. To this end, 3DOP [4] designs some depth              and density features are computed for the whole point cloud
features in stereo point cloud to score a large set of 3D can-           while the height feature is computed for M slices, thus in
didate boxes. Mono3D [3] exploits the ground plane prior                 total the bird’s eye view map is encoded as (M +2)-channel
and utilizes some segmentation features to generate 3D pro-              features.
posals from a single image. Both 3DOP and Mono3D use
hand-crated features. Deep Sliding Shapes [23] exploits                  Front View Representation. Front view representation
more powerful deep learning features. However, it oper-                  provides complementary information to the bird’s eye view
ates on 3D voxel grids and uses computationally expensive                representation. As LIDAR point cloud is very sparse, pro-
3D convolutions. We propose a more efficient approach by                 jecting it into the image plane results in a sparse 2D point
introducing a bird’s eye view representation of point cloud              map. Instead, we project it to a cylinder plane to gener-
and employing 2D convolutions to generate accurate 3D                    ate a dense front view map as in [17]. Given a 3D point
proposals.                                                               p = (x, y, z), its coordinates pf v = (r, c) in the front view
                                                                         map can be computed using
3. MV3D Network
                                                                                             c = batan2(y, x)/∆θ]c
   The MV3D network takes a multi-view representation of                                                   p                       (1)
                                                                                             r = batan2(z, x2 + y 2 )/∆φc,
3D point cloud and an image as input. It first generates 3D
object proposals from the bird’s eye view map and deeply                 where ∆θ and ∆φ are the horizontal and vertical resolution
fuses multi-view features via region-based representation.               of laser beams, respectively. We encode the front view map
The fused features are used for category classification and              with three-channel features, which are height, distance and
oriented 3D box regression.                                              intensity, as visualized in Fig. 2.
3.1. 3D Point Cloud Representation                                       3.2. 3D Proposal Network
   Existing work usually encodes 3D LIDAR point cloud                       Inspired by Region Proposal Network (RPN) which has
into a 3D grid [26, 7] or a front view map [17]. While the 3D            become the key component of the state-of-the-art 2D ob-
grid representation preserves most of the raw information                ject detectors [19], we first design a network to generate 3D
of the point cloud, it usually requires much more complex                object proposals. We use the bird’s eye view map as in-
computation for subsequent feature extraction. We propose                put. In 3D object detection, The bird’s eye view map has
a more compact representation by projecting 3D point cloud               several advantages over the front view/image plane. First,
to the bird’s eye view and the front view. Fig. 2 visualizes             objects preserve physical sizes when projected to the bird’s
the point cloud representation.                                          eye view, thus having small size variance, which is not the
Bird’s Eye View Representation. The bird’s eye view                      case in the front view/image plane. Second, objects in the
representation is encoded by height, intensity and density.              bird’s eye view occupy different space, thus avoiding the
We discretize the projected point cloud into a 2D grid with              occlusion problem. Third, in the road scene, since objects
resolution of 0.1m. For each cell, the height feature is com-            typically lie on the ground plane and have small variance in
puted as the maximum height of the points in the cell. To                vertical location, the bird’s eye view location is more cru-
encode more detailed height information, the point cloud is              cial to obtaining accurate 3D bounding boxes. Therefore,
devided equally into M slices. A height map is computed                  using explicit bird’s eye view map as input makes the 3D
for each slice, thus we obtain M height maps. The inten-                 location prediction more feasible.
sity feature is the reflectance value of the point which has                Given a bird’s eye view map. the network generates 3D
the maximum height in each cell. The point cloud density                 box proposals from a set of 3D prior boxes. Each 3D box
                                                                               Multi-Modal Input           Tied Weights               Multi-Task Loss

         C                                                     C
                                                                                                                                              Softmax

                                                                                              M    M                  M     M
             (a) Early Fusion            (b) Late Fusion                                                                                   3D Box
                                                                                                                                          Regression

        M            M          M    M   Input Intermediate layers Output                                                        Softmax +
                                                                                                                                3D Box Reg.
                                              C                M
                                         Concatenation Element-wise Mean
                                                                                                                                 Softmax +
                   (c) Deep Fusion                                                                                              3D Box Reg.

Figure 3: Architectures of different fusion schemes: We                                                                          Softmax +
                                                                                                                                3D Box Reg.
instantiate the join nodes in early/late fusion with concate-                                      Auxiliary Paths/Losses
nation operation, and deep fusion with element-wise mean
operation.                                                                  Figure 4: Training strategy for the Region-based Fu-
                                                                            sion Network: During training, the bottom three paths and
                                                                            losses are added to regularize the network. The auxiliary
is parameterized by (x, y, z, l, w, h), which are the center
                                                                            layers share weights with the corresponding layers in the
and size (in meters) of the 3D box in LIDAR coordinate
                                                                            main network.
system. For each 3D prior box, the corresponding bird’s
eye view anchor (xbv , ybv , lbv , wbv ) can be obtained by dis-
cretizing (x, y, l, w). We design N 3D prior boxes by clus-                 computing the box regression loss. During training, we
tering ground truth object sizes in the training set. In the                compute the IoU overlap between anchors and ground
case of car detection, (l, w) of prior boxes takes values in                truth bird’s eye view boxes. An anchor is considered to
{(3.9, 1.6), (1.0, 0.6)}, and the height h is set to 1.56m. By              be positive if its overlap is above 0.7, and negative if the
rotating the bird’s eye view anchors 90 degrees, we obtain                  overlap is below 0.5. Anchors with overlap in between are
N = 4 prior boxes. (x, y) is the varying positions in the                   ignored.
bird’s eye view feature map, and z can be computed based                       Since LIDAR point cloud is sparse, which results in
on the camera height and object height. We do not do ori-                   many empty anchors, we remove all the empty anchors dur-
entation regression in proposal generation, whereas we left                 ing both training and testing to reduce computation. This
it to the next prediction stage. The orientations of 3D boxes               can be achieved by computing an integral image over the
are restricted to {0◦ , 90◦ }, which are close to the actual ori-           point occupancy map.
entations of most road scene objects. This simplification                      For each non-empty anchor at each position of the
makes training of proposal regression easier.                               last convolution feature map, the network generates a 3D
    With a disretization resolution of 0.1m, object boxes in                box. To reduce redundancy, we apply Non-Maximum Sup-
the bird’s eye view only occupy 5∼40 pixels. Detecting                      pression (NMS) on the bird’s eye view boxes. Different
such extra-small objects is still a difficult problem for deep              from [23], we did not use 3D NMS because objects should
networks. One possible solution is to use higher resolution                 occupy different space on the ground plane. We use IoU
of the input, which, however, will require much more com-                   threshold of 0.7 for NMS. The top 2000 boxes are kept dur-
putation. We opt for feature map upsampling as in [1]. We                   ing training, while in testing, we only use 300 boxes.
use 2x bilinear upsampling after the last convolution layer in              3.3. Region-based Fusion Network
the proposal network. In our implementation, the front-end
convolutions only proceed three pooling operations, i.e., 8x                   We design a region-based fusion network to effectively
downsampling. Therefore, combined with the 2x deconvo-                      combine features from multiple views and jointly classify
lution, the feature map fed to the proposal network is 4x                   object proposals and do oriented 3D box regression.
downsampled with respect to the bird’s eye view input.                      Multi-View ROI Pooling. Since features from different
    We do 3D box regression by regressing to                                views/modalities usually have different resolutions, we em-
t = (∆x, ∆y, ∆z, ∆l, ∆w, ∆h), similarly to RPN [19].                        ploy ROI pooling [10] for each view to obtain feature vec-
(∆x, ∆y, ∆z) are the center offsets normalized by                           tors of the same length. Given the generated 3D proposals,
anchor sizes, and (∆l, ∆w, ∆h) are computed as                              we can project them to any views in the 3D space. In our
∆s = log ssanchor
                GT
                    , s ∈ {l, w, h}. we use a multi-task                    case, we project them to three views, i.e., bird’s eye view
loss to simultaneously classify object/background and do                    (BV), front view (FV), and the image plane (RGB). Given
3D box regression. In particular, we use class-entropy for                  a 3D proposal p3D , we obtain ROIs on each view via:
the “objectness” loss and Smooth `1 [10] for the 3D box
regression loss. Background anchors are ignored when                                   ROIv = T3D→v (p3D ), v ∈ {BV, FV, RGB}                           (2)
                 1                                                                                   1                                                                      1

                                                                                                   0.8                                                                    0.8

                                                                    recall at IoU threshold 0.25
               0.8

                                                                                                                                            recall at IoU threshold 0.5
               0.6                                                                                 0.6                                                                    0.6
      recall

               0.4                                                                                 0.4                                                                    0.4

               0.2         3DOP
                                                                                                   0.2                             3DOP                                   0.2                            3DOP
                           Mono3D                                                                                                  Mono3D                                                                Mono3D
                           Ours                                                                                                    Ours                                                                  Ours
                 0                                                                                   0                                                                      0
                     0      0.2        0.4      0.6       0.8   1                                    10 1    10 2           10 3                                            10 1   10 2           10 3
                                  IoU overlap threshold                                                       # proposals                                                           # proposals

Figure 5: 3D bounding box Recall: From left to right: Recall vs IoU using 300 proposals, Recall vs #Proposals at IoU
threshold of 0.25 and 0.5 respectively. Recall are evaluated on moderate data of KITTI validation set.

where T3D→v denotes the tranformation functions from the                                                               Oriented 3D Box Regression Given the fusion fea-
LIDAR coordinate system to the bird’s eye view, front view,                                                            tures of the multi-view network, we regress to oriented
and the image plane, respectively. Given an input feature                                                              3D boxes from 3D proposals. In particular, the re-
map x from the front-end network of each view, we obtain                                                               gression targets are the 8 corners of 3D boxes: t =
fixed-length features fv via ROI pooling:                                                                              (∆x0 , · · · , ∆x7 , ∆y0 , · · · , ∆y7 , ∆z0 , · · · , ∆z7 ). They are
                                                                                                                       encoded as the corner offsets normalized by the diagonal
                fv = R(x, ROIv ), v ∈ {BV, FV, RGB}.                                                        (3)        length of the proposal box. Despite such a 24-D vector rep-
                                                                                                                       resentation is redundant in representing an oriented 3D box,
Deep Fusion. To combine information from different fea-                                                                we found that this encoding approach works better than the
tures, prior work usually use early fusion [1] or late fu-                                                             centers and sizes encoding approach. Note that our 3D box
sion [23, 13]. Inspired by [15, 27], we employ a deep fusion                                                           regression differs from [23] which regresses to axis-aligned
approach, which fuses multi-view features hierarchically. A                                                            3D boxes. In our model, the object orientations can be com-
comparison of the architectures of our deep fusion network                                                             puted from the predicted 3D box corners. We use a multi-
and early/late fusion networks are shown in Fig. 3. For a                                                              task loss to jointly predict object categories and oriented 3D
network that has L layers, early fusion combines features                                                              boxes. As in the proposal network, the category loss uses
{fv } from multiple views in the input stage:                                                                          cross-entropy and the 3D box loss uses smooth `1 . During
                                                                                                                       training, the positive/negative ROIs are determined based
   fL = HL (HL−1 (· · · H1 (fBV ⊕ fF V ⊕ fRGB )))                                                           (4)        on the IoU overlap of brid’s eye view boxes. A 3D proposal
                                                                                                                       is considered to be positive if the bird’s eye view IoU over-
{Hl , l = 1, · · · , L} are feature transformation functions                                                           lap is above 0.5, and negative otherwise. During inference,
and ⊕ is a join operation (e.g., concatenation, summation).                                                            we apply NMS on the 3D boxes after 3D bounding box re-
In contrast, late fusion uses seperate subnetworks to learn                                                            gression. We project the 3D boxes to the bird’s eye view to
feature transformation independently and combines their                                                                compute their IoU overlap. We use IoU threshold of 0.05
outputs in the prediction stage:                                                                                       to remove redundant boxes, which ensures objects can not
                                                                                                                       occupy the same space in bird’s eye view.
                         fL =(HBV        BV
                               L (· · · H1 (fBV )))⊕

                              (HF V       FV
                                L (· · · H1 (fF V )))⊕                                                      (5)        Network Regularization We employ two approaches to
                              (HRGB
                                L   (· · · HRGB
                                            1   (fRGB )))                                                              regularize the region-based fusion network: drop-path
                                                                                                                       training [15] and auxiliary losses. For each iteration, we
   To enable more interactions among features of the inter-                                                            randomly choose to do global drop-path or local drop-path
mediate layers from different views, we design the follow-                                                             with a probability of 50%. If global drop-path is chosen, we
ing deep fusion process:                                                                                               select a single view from the three views with equal proba-
                                                                                                                       bility. If local drop-path is chosen, paths input to each join
   f0 =fBV ⊕ fF V ⊕ fRGB                                                                                               node are randomly dropped with 50% probability. We en-
    fl =HBV (fl−1 ) ⊕ HF V
                           (fl−1 ) ⊕ HRGB (fl−1 ),                                                          (6)        sure that for each join node at least one input path is kept.
         l             l              l
                                                                                                                       To further strengthen the representation capability of each
               ∀l = 1, · · · , L
                                                                                                                       view, we add auxiliary paths and losses to the network. As
We use element-wise mean for the join operation for deep                                                               shown in Fig. 4, the auxiliary paths have the same number
fusion since it is more flexible when combined with drop-                                                              of layers with the main network. Each layer in the auxil-
path training [15].                                                                                                    iary paths shares weights with the corresponding layer in the
                                                                  IoU=0.5                      IoU=0.7
                      Method                Data
                                                         Easy     Moderate   Hard     Easy     Moderate    Hard
                     Mono3D [3]            Mono          30.5      22.39     19.16     5.22      5.19      4.13
                       3DOP [4]           Stereo         55.04     41.25     34.55    12.63      9.49      7.59
                    VeloFCN [17]          LIDAR          79.68     63.82     62.80    40.14     32.08      30.47
                   Ours (BV+FV)           LIDAR          95.74     88.57     88.13    86.18     77.32      76.33
                 Ours (BV+FV+RGB)      LIDAR+Mono        96.34     89.39     88.67    86.55     78.10      76.67
Table 1: 3D localization performance: Average Precision (APloc ) (in %) of bird’s eye view boxes on KITTI validation set.
For Mono3D and 3DOP, we use 3D box regression [5] instead of 2D box regression used in the original implementation.
                                                   IoU=0.25                      IoU=0.5                      IoU=0.7
        Method                 Data
                                           Easy    Moderate      Hard    Easy    Moderate     Hard    Easy    Moderate    Hard
     Mono3D [3]              Mono          62.94     48.2        42.68   25.19     18.2       15.52    2.53     2.31      2.31
       3DOP [4]             Stereo         85.49     68.82       64.09   46.04    34.63       30.09    6.55     5.07       4.1
    VeloFCN [17]            LIDAR          89.04     81.06       75.93   67.92    57.57       52.56   15.20    13.66      15.98
   Ours (BV+FV)             LIDAR          96.03     88.85       88.39   95.19    87.65       80.11   71.19    56.60      55.30
 Ours (BV+FV+RGB)        LIDAR+Mono        96.52     89.56       88.94   96.02    89.05       88.38   71.29    62.68      56.56
Table 2: 3D detection performance: Average Precision (AP3D ) (in %) of 3D boxes on KITTI validation set. For Mono3D
and 3DOP, we use 3D box regression [5] instead of 2D box regression used in the original implementation.

main network. We use the same multi-task loss, i.e. classi-         70.4] × [-40, 40] meters. We also remove points that are
fication loss plus 3D box regression loss, to back-propagate        out of the image boundaries when projected to the image
each auxiliary path. We weight all the losses including aux-        plane. For bird’s eye view, the discretization resolution is
iliary losses equally. The auxiliary paths are removed dur-         set to 0.1m, therefore the bird’s eye view input has size
ing inference.                                                      of 704×800. Since KITTI uses a 64-beam Velodyne laser
                                                                    scanner, we can obtain a 64×512 map for the front view
3.4. Implementation                                                 points. The RGB image is up-scaled so that the shortest
Network Architecture. In our multi-view network, each               size is 500.
view has the same architecture. The base network is built on        Training. The network is trained in an end-to-end fash-
the 16-layer VGG net [20] with the following modifications:         ion. For each mini-batch we use 1 image and sample 128
   • Channels are reduced to half of the original network.          ROIs, roughly keeping 25% of the ROIs as positive. We
   • To handle extra-small objects, we use feature approx-          train the network using SGD with a learning rate of 0.001
     imation to obtain high-resolution feature map. In par-         for 100K iterations. Then we reduce the learning rate to
     ticular, we insert a 2x bilinear upsampling layer be-          0.0001 and train another 20K iterations.
     fore feeding the last convolution feature map to the 3D
     Proposal Network. Similarly, we insert a 4x/4x/2x up-          4. Experiments
     sampling layer before the ROI pooling layer for the
     BV/FV/RGB branch.                                                 We evaluate our MV3D network on the challenging
   • We remove the 4th pooling operation in the original            KITTI object detection benchmark [9]. The dataset pro-
     VGG network, thus the convolution parts of our net-            vides 7,481 images for training and 7,518 images for test-
     work proceed 8x downsampling.                                  ing. As the test server only evaluates 2D detection, we fol-
   • In the muti-view fusion network, we add an extra fully         low [4] to split the training data into training set and vali-
     connected layer f c8 in addition to the original f c6 and      dation set, each containing roughly half of the whole train-
     f c7 layer.                                                    ing data. We conduct 3D box evaluation on the validation
We initialize the parameters by sampling weights from the           set. We focus our experiments on the car category as KITTI
VGG-16 network pretrained on ImageNet. Despite our net-             provides enough car instances for our deep network based
work has three branches, the number of parameters is about          approach. Following the KITTI setting, we do evaluation
75% of the VGG-16 network. The inference time of the net-           on three difficulty regimes: easy, moderate and hard.
work for one image is around 0.36s on a GeForce Titan X
                                                                    Metrics. We evaluate 3D object proposals using 3D box
GPU.
                                                                    recall as the metric. Different from 2D box recall [14],
Input Representation. In the case of KITTI, which pro-              we compute the IoU overlap of two cuboids. Note that the
vides only annotations for objects in the front view (around        cuboids are not necessary to align with the axes, i.e., they
90◦ field of view), we use point cloud in the range of [0,          could be oriented 3D boxes. In our evaluation, we set the
                                              AP3D (IoU=0.5)                    APloc (IoU=0.5)                   AP2D (IoU=0.7)
                 Data
                                      Easy      Moderate Hard           Easy      Moderate Hard           Easy      Moderate Hard
             Early Fusion             93.92       87.60      87.23      94.31        88.15      87.61     87.29       85.76      78.77
             Late Fusion              93.53       87.70      86.88      93.84        88.12      87.20     87.47       85.36      78.66
       Deep Fusion w/o aux. loss      94.21       88.29      87.21      94.57        88.75      88.02     88.64       85.74      79.06
       Deep Fusion w/ aux. loss       96.02       89.05      88.38      96.34        89.39      88.67     95.01       87.59      79.90
         Table 3: Comparison of different fusion approaches: Peformance are evaluated on KITTI validation set.
                                      AP3D (IoU=0.5)                    APloc (IoU=0.5)                   AP2D (IoU=0.7)
                 Data
                              Easy      Moderate Hard           Easy      Moderate Hard           Easy      Moderate Hard
                 FV            67.6       56.30      49.98      74.02        62.18      57.61     75.61       61.60      54.29
                RGB           73.68       68.86      61.94      77.30        71.68      64.58     83.80       76.45      73.42
                 BV           92.30       85.50      78.94      92.90        86.98      86.14     85.00       76.21      74.80
              FV+RGB          77.41       71.63      64.30      82.57        75.19      66.96     86.34       77.47      74.59
               FV+BV          95.19       87.65      80.11      95.74        88.57      88.13     88.41       78.97      78.16
              BV+RGB          96.09       88.70      80.52      96.45        89.19      80.69     89.61       87.76      79.76
             BV+FV+RGB        96.02       89.05      88.38      96.34        89.39      88.67     95.01       87.59      79.90
          Table 4: An ablation study of multi-view features: Peformance are evaluated on KITTI validation set.

3D IoU threshold to 0.25 and 0.5, respectively. For the fi-                        Method        Data                    Easy Mod. Hard
nal 3D detection results, we use two metrics to measure the                  Faster R-CNN [19]   Mono                    87.90 79.11 70.19
accuracy of 3D localization and 3D bounding box detec-                          Mono3D [3]       Mono                    90.27 87.86 78.09
tion. For 3D localization, we project the 3D boxes to the                         3DOP [4]      Stereo                   90.09 88.34 78.79
ground plane (i.e., bird’s eye view) to obtain oriented bird’s                  MS-CNN [1]       Mono                    90.46 88.83 74.76
eye view boxes. We compute Average Precision (APloc ) for                      SubCNN [29]       Mono                    90.75 88.86 79.24
                                                                             SDP+RPN [30, 19]    Mono                    89.90 89.42 78.54
the bird’s eye view boxes. For 3D bounding box detection,
we also use the Average Precision (AP3D ) metric to evaluate                    Vote3D [26]     LIDAR                    56.66 48.05 42.64
                                                                               VeloFCN [17]     LIDAR                    70.68 53.45 46.90
the full 3D bounding boxes. Note that both the bird’s eye
                                                                               Vote3Deep [7]    LIDAR                    76.95 68.39 63.22
view boxes and the 3D boxes are oriented, thus object ori-                      3D FCN [16]     LIDAR                    85.54 75.83 68.30
entations are implicitly considered in these two metrics. We                   Ours (BV+FV)     LIDAR                    89.80 79.76 78.61
also evaluate the performance of 2D detection by projecting                 Ours (BV+FV+RGB) LIDAR+Mono                  90.37 88.90 79.81
the 3D boxes to the image plane. Average Preicision (AP2D )
                                                                          Table 5: 2D detection performance: Average Precision
is also used as the metric. Following the KITTI convention,
                                                                          (AP2D ) (in %) for car category on KITTI test set. Meth-
IoU threshold is set to 0.7 for 2D boxes.
                                                                          ods in the first group optimize 2D boxes directly while the
Baslines. As this work aims at 3D object detection,                       second group optimize 3D boxes.
we mainly compare our approach to LIDAR-based meth-
ods VeloFCN [17], 3D FCN [16], Vote3Deep [7] and
                                                                          threshold of 0.25 and 91% recall at IoU of 0.5. In contrast,
Vote3D [26], as well as image-based methods 3DOP [4] and
                                                                          when using IoU of 0.5, the maximum recall that 3DOP can
Mono3D [3]. For fair comparison, we focus on two variants
                                                                          achieve is only 73.9%. The large margin suggests the ad-
of our approach, i.e., the purely LIDAR-based variant which
                                                                          vantage of our LIDAR-based approach over image-based
uses bird’s eye view and front view as input (BV+FV), and
                                                                          methods.
the multimodal variant which combines LIDAR and RGB
data (BV+FV+RGB). For 3D box evaluation, we compare                       3D Localization. We use IoU threshold of 0.5 and 0.7 for
with VeloFCN, 3DOP and Mono3D since they provide re-                      3D localization evaluation. Table 1 shows APloc on KITTI
sults on the validation set. For 3D FCN, Vote3Deep and                    validation set. As expected, all LIDAR-based approaches
Vote3D, which have no results publicly available, we only                 performs better than stereo-based method 3DOP [4] and
do comparison on 2D detection on the test set.                            monocular method Mono3D [3]. Among LIDAR-based ap-
3D Proposal Recall. 3D box recall are shown in Fig. 5.                    proaches, our method (BV+FV) outperforms VeloFCN [17]
We plot recall as a function of IoU threshold using 300 pro-              by ∼25% APloc under IoU threshold of 0.5. When using
posals. Our approach significantly outperforms 3DOP [4]                   IoU=0.7 as the criteria, our improvement is even larger,
and Mono3D [3] across all the IoU thresholds. Fig. 5 also                 achieving ∼45% higher APloc across easy, moderate and
shows 3D recall as a function of the proposal numbers un-                 hard regimes. By combining with RGB images, our ap-
der IoU threshold of 0.25 and 0.5, respectively. Using only               proach is further improved. We visualize the localization
300 proposals, our approach obtains 99.1% recall at IoU                   results of some examples in Fig. 6.
                3DOP [4]                           VeloFCN [17]                                  Ours
Figure 6: Qualitative comparisons of 3D detection results: 3D Boxes are projected to the bird’s eye view and the images.

3D Object Detection. For the 3D overlap criteria, we fo-          three views.
cus on 3D IoU of 0.5 and 0.7 for LIDAR-based methods. As
                                                                  2D Object Detection. We finally evaluate 2D detection
these IoU thresholds are rather strict for image-based meth-
                                                                  performance on KITTI test set. Results are shown in Ta-
ods, we also use IoU of 0.25 for evaluation. As shown in
                                                                  ble 5. Among the LIDAR-based methods, our “BV+FV”
Table 2, our “BV+FV” method obtains ∼30% higher AP3D
                                                                  approach outperforms the recently proposed 3D FCN [16]
over VeloFCN when using IoU of 0.5, achieving 87.65%
                                                                  method by 10.31% AP2D in the hard setting. In overall,
AP3D in the moderate setting. With criteria of IoU=0.7, our
                                                                  image-based methods usually perform better than LIDAR-
multimodal approach still achieves 71.29% AP3D on easy
                                                                  based methods in terms of 2D detection. This is due to the
data. In the moderate setting, the best AP3D that can be
                                                                  fact that image-based methods directly optimize 2D boxes
achieved by 3DOP using IoU=0.25 is 68.82%, while our
                                                                  while LIDAR-based methods optimize 3D boxes. Note that
approach achieves 89.05% AP3D using IoU=0.5. Some 3D
                                                                  despite our method optimizes 3D boxes, it also obtains com-
detectioin results are visualized in Fig. 6.
                                                                  petitive results compared with the state-of-the-art 2D detec-
                                                                  tion methods.
Ablation Studies. We first compare our deep fusion net-
work with early/late fusion approaches. As commonly used          Qualitative Results. As shown in Fig. 6, our approach
in literature, the join operation is instantiated with concate-   obtains much more accurate 3D locations, sizes and ori-
nation in the early/late fusion schemes. As shown in Ta-          entation of objects compared with stereo-based method
ble 3, early and late fusion approaches have very similar         3DOP [4] and LIDAR-based method VeloFCN [17].
performance. Without using auxiliary loss, the deep fusion
                                                                  5. Conclusion
method achieves ∼0.5% improvement over early and late
fusion approaches. Adding auxiliary loss further improves            We have proposed a multi-view sensory-fusion model
deep fusion network by around 1%.                                 for 3D object detection in the road scene. Our model takes
    To study the contributions of the features from differ-       advantage of both LIDAR point cloud and images. We
ent views, we experiment with different combination of the        align different modalities by generating 3D proposals and
bird’s eye view (BV), the front view (FV), and the RGB im-        projecting them to multiple views for feature extraction.
age (RGB). The 3D proposal network is the same for all the        A region-based fusion network is presented to deeply fuse
variants. Detailed comparisons are shown in Table 4. If us-       multi-view information and do oriented 3D box regression.
ing only a single view as input, the bird’s eye view feature      Our approach significantly outperforms existing LIDAR-
performs the best while the front view feature the worst.         based and image-based methods on tasks of 3D localization
Combining any of the two views can always improve over            and 3D detection on KITTI benchmark [9]. Our 2D box
individual views. This justifies our assumption that features     results obtained from 3D detections also show competitive
from different views are complementary. The best overal           performance compared with the state-of-the-art 2D detec-
performance can be achieved when fusing features of all           tion methods.
Acknowledgements. The work was supported by Na-                      [19] S. Ren, K. He, R. Girshick, and J. Sun. Faster R-CNN: To-
tional Key Basic Research Program of China (No.                           wards real-time object detection with region proposal net-
2016YFB0100900) and NSFC 61171113.                                        works. In NIPS, 2015. 3, 4, 7
                                                                     [20] K. Simonyan and A. Zisserman. Very deep convolu-
References                                                                tional networks for large-scale image recognition.          In
                                                                          arXiv:1409.1556, 2014. 6
 [1] Z. Cai, Q. Fan, R. Feris, and N. Vasconcelos. A unified         [21] S. Song and M. Chandraker. Joint sfm and detection cues
     multi-scale deep convolutional neural network for fast object        for monocular 3d localization in road scenes. In Computer
     detection. In ECCV, 2016. 4, 5, 7                                    Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 3734–3742, 2015. 2
 [2] J. Carreira and C. Sminchisescu. Cpmc: Automatic object         [22] S. Song and J. Xiao. Sliding shapes for 3d object detection
     segmentation using constrained parametric min-cuts. PAMI,            in depth images. In ECCV. 2014. 2
     34(7):1312–1328, 2012. 3
                                                                     [23] S. Song and J. Xiao. Deep sliding shapes for amodal 3d
 [3] X. Chen, K. Kundu, Z. Zhang, H. Ma, S. Fidler, and R. Urta-
                                                                          object detection in rgb-d images. In CVPR, 2016. 2, 3, 4, 5
     sun. Monocular 3d object detection for autonomous driving.
                                                                     [24] H. Su, S.Maji, E.Kalogerakis, and E. Learned-Miller. Multi-
     In CVPR, 2016. 1, 2, 3, 6, 7
                                                                          view convolutional neural networks for 3d shape recognition.
 [4] X. Chen, K. Kundu, Y. Zhu, A. Berneshawi, H. Ma, S. Fidler,
                                                                          In ICCV, 2015. 2
     and R. Urtasun. 3d object proposals for accurate object class
                                                                     [25] K. Van de Sande, J. Uijlings, T. Gevers, and A. Smeulders.
     detection. In NIPS, 2015. 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8
                                                                          Segmentation as selective search for object recognition. In
 [5] X. Chen, K. Kundu, Y. Zhu, H. Ma, S. Fidler, and R. Urtasun.
                                                                          ICCV, 2011. 3
     3d object proposals using stereo imagery for accurate object
     class detection. In PAMI, 2017. 6                               [26] D. Z. Wang and I. Posner. Voting for voting in online point
 [6] V. Dhiman, Q. H. Tran, J. J. Corso, and M. Chandraker. A             cloud object detection. In Proceedings of Robotics: Science
     continuous occlusion model for road scene understanding. In          and Systems, 2015. 1, 2, 3, 7
     CVPR, pages 4331–4339, 2016. 2                                  [27] J. Wang, Z. Wei, T. Zhang, and W. Zeng. Deeply-fused nets.
 [7] M. Engelcke, D. Rao, D. Zeng Wang, C. Hay Tong, and                  arXiv:1605.07716, 2016. 2, 5
     I. Posner. Vote3Deep: Fast Object Detection in 3D Point         [28] Y. Xiang, W. Choi, Y. Lin, and S. Savarese. Data-driven
     Clouds Using Efficient Convolutional Neural Networks.                3d voxel patterns for object category recognition. In CVPR,
     arXiv:1609.06666, 2016. 1, 2, 3, 7                                   2015. 2
 [8] M. Enzweiler and D. M. Gavrila. A multilevel mixture-of-        [29] Y. Xiang, W. Choi, Y. Lin, and S. Savarese. Subcategory-
     experts framework for pedestrian classification. IEEE Trans-         aware convolutional neural networks for object proposals
     actions on Image Processing, 20(10):2967–2979, 2011. 1, 2            and detection. In arXiv:1604.04693. 2016. 7
 [9] A. Geiger, P. Lenz, and R. Urtasun. Are we ready for au-        [30] F. Yang, W. Choi, and Y. Lin. Exploit all the layers: Fast and
     tonomous driving? the kitti vision benchmark suite. In               accurate cnn object detector with scale dependent pooling
     CVPR, 2012. 1, 6, 8                                                  and cascaded rejection classifiers. In CVPR, 2016. 7
[10] R. Girshick. Fast R-CNN. In ICCV, 2015. 1, 2, 4                 [31] M. Z. Zia, M. Stark, B. Schiele, and K. Schindler. De-
[11] A. Gonzalez, D. Vazquez, A. Lopez, and J. Amores. On-                tailed 3d representations for object recognition and model-
     board object detection: Multicue, multimodal, and multiview          ing. PAMI, 2013. 2
     random forest of local experts. In IEEE Transactions on Cy-     [32] M. Z. Zia, M. Stark, and K. Schindler. Are cars just 3d
     bernetics, 2016. 1, 2                                                boxes? jointly estimating the 3d shape of multiple objects.
[12] V. Hegde and R. Zadeh. Fusionnet: 3d object classification           In CVPR, pages 3678–3685, 2014. 2
     using multiple data representations. CoRR, abs/1607.05695,      [33] L. Zitnick and P. Dollár. Edge boxes: Locating object pro-
     2016. 2                                                              posals from edges. In ECCV. 2014. 3
[13] J. Hoffman, S. Gupta, and T. Darrell. Learning with side
     information through modality hallucination. In CVPR, 2016.
     5
[14] J. Hosang, R. Benenson, P. Dollár, and B. Schiele. What
     makes for effective detection proposals? PAMI, 2015. 6
[15] G. Larsson, M. Maire, and G. Shakhnarovich. Frac-
     talnet: Ultra-deep neural networks without residuals.
     arXiv:1605.07648, 2016. 1, 2, 5
[16] B. Li. 3d fully convolutional network for vehicle detection
     in point cloud. IROS, 2017. 2, 7, 8
[17] B. Li, T. Zhang, and T. Xia. Vehicle detection from 3d lidar
     using fully convolutional network. In Robotics: Science and
     Systems, 2016. 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8
[18] C. R. Qi, M. N. H. Su, A. Dai, M. Yan, and L.Guibas. Vol-
     umetric and multi-view cnns for object classification on 3d
     data. In CVPR, 2016. 2
