---
source_id: 094
bibtex_key: yoo20203dcvf
title: 3D-CVF: Generating Joint Camera and LiDAR Features Using Cross-View Spatial Feature Fusion for 3D Object Detection
year: 2020
domain_theme: Deteksi 3D
verified_pdf: 94_3D-CVF.pdf
char_count: 59902
---

3D-CVF: Generating Joint Camera and LiDAR
                                            Features Using Cross-View Spatial Feature
                                                 Fusion for 3D Object Detection

                                                  Jin Hyeok Yoo? , Yecheol Kim∗ , Jisong Kim, and Jun Won Choi??

                                                        Department of Electrical Engineering, Hanyang University
arXiv:2004.12636v2 [cs.CV] 21 Jul 2020

                                                              {jhyoo,yckim,jskim}@spa.hanyang.ac.kr
                                                                       junwchoi@hanyang.ac.kr

                                                  Abstract. In this paper, we propose a new deep architecture for fusing
                                                  camera and LiDAR sensors for 3D object detection. Because the camera
                                                  and LiDAR sensor signals have different characteristics and distributions,
                                                  fusing these two modalities is expected to improve both the accuracy and
                                                  robustness of 3D object detection. One of the challenges presented by the
                                                  fusion of cameras and LiDAR is that the spatial feature maps obtained
                                                  from each modality are represented by significantly different views in the
                                                  camera and world coordinates; hence, it is not an easy task to combine
                                                  two heterogeneous feature maps without loss of information. To address
                                                  this problem, we propose a method called 3D-CVF that combines the
                                                  camera and LiDAR features using the cross-view spatial feature fusion
                                                  strategy. First, the method employs auto-calibrated projection, to trans-
                                                  form the 2D camera features to a smooth spatial feature map with the
                                                  highest correspondence to the LiDAR features in the bird’s eye view
                                                  (BEV) domain. Then, a gated feature fusion network is applied to use
                                                  the spatial attention maps to mix the camera and LiDAR features appro-
                                                  priately according to the region. Next, camera-LiDAR feature fusion is
                                                  also achieved in the subsequent proposal refinement stage. The low-level
                                                  LiDAR features and camera features are separately pooled using region
                                                  of interest (RoI)-based feature pooling and fused with the joint camera-
                                                  LiDAR features for enhanced proposal refinement. Our evaluation, con-
                                                  ducted on the KITTI and nuScenes 3D object detection datasets, demon-
                                                  strates that the camera-LiDAR fusion offers significant performance gain
                                                  over the LiDAR-only baseline and that the proposed 3D-CVF achieves
                                                  state-of-the-art performance in the KITTI benchmark.

                                                  Keywords: 3D Object Detection, Sensor Fusion, Intelligent Vehicle,
                                                  Camera Sensor, LiDAR Sensor, Bird’s Eye View

                                         1      Introduction
                                            Object detection has been considered one of the most challenging com-
                                         puter vision problems. Recently, the emergence of convolutional neural networks
                                         ?
                                              : Equal contribution
                                         ??
                                              : Corresponding author
2       Jin Hyeok Yoo et al.

                 (a)                     (b)                     (c)

Fig. 1. Visualization of the projected camera feature map: (a), (b), and (c)
show visualizations of the six camera feature maps projected in the bird’s eye view
(BEV) domain. Without our auto-calibrated projection, some artifacts in the feature
map are visible in (a). The auto-calibrated projection generates the smooth and dense
transformed feature map shown in (b). However, the feature map in (b) fails to localize
the region of the objects. After applying the adaptive gated fusion network, we can
finally resolve the region of objects as shown in the feature map (c).

(CNN) has enabled unprecedented progress in object detection techniques ow-
ing to its ability to extract the abstract high-level features from the 2D image.
Thus far, numerous object detection methods have been developed for 2D ob-
ject detection [16,20,21]. Recently, these studies have been extended to the 3D
object detection task [29,2,8,24,3,17,31,28,12,9,13,30,26], where the locations of
the objects should be identified in 3D world coordinates. 3D object detection is
particularly useful for autonomous driving applications because diverse types of
dynamic objects, such as surrounding vehicles, pedestrians, and cyclists, must
be identified in the 3D environment.
    In general, achieving good accuracy in 3D object detection using only a cam-
era sensor is not an easy task owing to the lack of depth information. Thus,
other ranging sensors such as LiDAR, Radar, and RGB-D camera sensors are
widely used as alternative signal sources for 3D object detection. Thus far, vari-
ous 3D object detectors employing LiDAR sensors have been proposed, including
MV3D [2], PIXOR [29], ContFuse [13], PointRCNN [22], F-ConvNet [26], STD
[30], VoxelNet [31], SECOND [28], MMF [12], PointPillar [9], and Part A2 [23].
Although the performance of the LiDAR only based 3D object detectors have
been significantly improved lately, LiDAR point clouds are still limited for pro-
viding dense and rich information on the objects such as their fine-grained shape,
colors, and textures. Hence, using camera and LiDAR data together is expected
to yield better and more robust detection results in accuracy. Various camera
and LiDAR fusion strategies have been proposed for 3D object detection. Well-
known camera and LiDAR fusion methods include AVOD [8], MV3D [2], MMF
[12], RoarNet [24], F-PointNet [17], and ContFuse [13].
    In fact, the problem of fusing camera and LiDAR sensors is challenging as
the features obtained from the camera image and LiDAR point cloud are rep-
resented in different points of view (i.e., camera-view versus 3D world view).
                                                                 3D-CVF        3

When the camera feature is projected into 3D world coordinates, some useful
spatial information about the objects might be lost since this transformation is
a one-to-many mapping. Furthermore, there might be some inconsistency be-
tween the projected coordinate and LiDAR 3D coordinate. Indeed, it has been
difficult for the camera-LiDAR fusion-based methods to beat the LiDAR-only
methods in terms of performance. This motivates us to find an effective way to
fuse two feature maps in different views without losing important information
for 3D object detection.
    In this paper, we propose a new 3D object detection method, named 3D-
cross view fusion (3D-CVF), which can fuse the spatial feature maps separately
extracted from the camera and LiDAR data, effectively. As shown in Fig. 2,
we are interested in fusing the LiDAR sensor and the N multi-view cameras
deployed to cover a wider field of view. Information fusion between the camera
and LiDAR is achieved over two object detection stages. In the first stage, we
aim to generate the strong joint camera-LiDAR features. The auto-calibrated
feature projection maps the camera-view features to smooth and dense BEV
feature maps using the interpolated projection capable of correcting the spatial
offsets. Fig. 1 (a) and (b) compare the feature maps obtained without auto-
calibrated projection versus with the auto-calibrated projection, respectively.
Note that the auto-calibrated projection yields a smooth camera feature map in
the BEV domain as shown in Fig. 1 (b). We also note from Fig. 1 (b) that since
the camera feature mapping is a one-to-many mapping, we cannot localize the
objects on the transformed camera feature map. To resolve objects in the BEV
domain, we employ the adaptive gated fusion network that determines where and
what should be brought from two sources using attention mechanism. Fig. 1 (c)
shows the appropriately-localized activation for the objects obtained by applying
the adaptive gated fusion network. Camera-LiDAR information fusion is also
achieved at the second proposal refinement stage. Once the region proposals are
found based on the joint camera-LiDAR feature map obtained in the first stage,
3D region of interest (RoI)-based pooling is applied to fuse low-level LiDAR and
camera features with the joint camera-LiDAR feature map. The LiDAR and
camera features corresponding to the 3D RoI boxes are pooled and encoded by
PointNet encoder. Aggregation of the encoded features with the joint camera-
LiDAR features lead to improved proposal refinement.
    We have evaluated our 3D-CVF method on publicly available KITTI [4]
and nuScenes [1] datasets. We confirm that by combining the above two sensor
fusion strategies combined, the proposed method offers up to 1.57% and 2.74%
performance gains in mAP over the baseline without sensor fusion on the KITTI
and nuScenes datasets, respectively. Also, we show that the proposed 3D-CVF
method achieves impressive detection accuracy comparable to state-of-the-art
performance in KITTI 3D object detection benchmark.
    The contributions of our work are summarized as follows

 – We propose a new 3D object detection architecture that effectively combines
   information provided by both camera and LiDAR sensors in two detection
   stages. In the first stage, the strong joint camera-LiDAR feature is gener-
4         Jin Hyeok Yoo et al.

      ated by applying the auto-calibrated projection and the gated attention. In
      the second proposal refinement stage, 3D RoI-based feature aggregation is
      performed to achieve further improvements through sensor fusion.
    – We investigate the benefit of the sensor fusion achieved by the 3D-CVF. Our
      experiments demonstrate that the performance gain achieved by the sensor
      fusion in nuScenes dataset is higher than that in KITTI dataset. Because
      the resolution of LiDAR used in nuScenes is lower than that in KITTI, this
      shows that the camera sensor compensates low resolution of the LiDAR data.
      Also, we observe that the performance gain achieved by the sensor fusion is
      much higher for distant objects than for near objects, which also validates
      our conclusion.

2      Related Work
2.1     LiDAR-Only 3D Object Detection
    The LiDAR-based 3D object detectors should encode the point clouds since
they have unordered and irregular structures. MV3D [2] and PIXOR [29] pro-
jected 3D point clouds onto the discrete grid structure in 2D planes and extracted
the features from the resulting multi-view 2D images. PointRCNN [22] and STD
[30] used PointNet [18,19] to yield the global feature representing the geomet-
ric structure of the entire point set. Voxel-based point encoding methods used
3D voxels to organize the unordered point clouds and encoded the points in
each voxel using the point encoding network [31]. Various voxel-based 3D ob-
ject detectors have been proposed, including SECOND [28], PointPillar [9], and
Part-A2 [23].

2.2     LiDAR and Camera Fusion-based 3D Object Detection
    To exploit the advantages of the camera and LiDAR sensors, various camera
and LiDAR fusion methods have been proposed for 3D object detection. The
approaches proposed in [17,24,27,26] detected the objects in the two sequential
steps, where 1) the region proposals were generated based on the camera image,
and then 2) the LiDAR points in the region of interest were processed to detect
the objects. However, the performance of these methods is limited by the accu-
racy of the camera-based detector. MV3D [2] proposed the two-stage detector,
where 3D proposals are found from the LiDAR point clouds projected in BEV,
and 3D object detection is performed by fusing the multi-view features obtained
by RoI pooling. AVOD [8] fused the LiDAR BEV and camera front-view features
at the intermediate convolutional layer to propose 3D bounding boxes. ContFuse
[13] proposed the effective fusion architecture that transforms the front camera-
view features into those in BEV through some interpolation network. MMF [12]
learned to fuse both camera and LiDAR data through multi-task loss associated
with 2D and 3D object detection, ground estimation, and depth completion.
    While various sensor fusion networks have been proposed, they do not easily
outperform LiDAR-only based detectors. This might be due to the difficulty of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3D-CVF                             5

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 …
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PointNet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                RoI-based LiDAR                             Encoding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Feature Pooling

 LiDAR Pipeline

                                      Raw LiDAR data

                                                                                    3D sparse conv

                                                                                                                            3D sparse conv

                                                                                                                                             3D sparse conv

                                                                                                                                                                             3D sparse conv

                                                                                                                                                                                                         3D sparse conv

                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3D sparse conv
                                                       Voxelization

                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3x3x2 (128)
                                                                      Voxel Input

                                                                                                     stride 2

                                                                                                                                                                  stride 2

                                                                                                                                                                                              stride 2
                                                                                                                              3x3x2 (16)

                                                                                                                                               3x3x3 (32)

                                                                                                                                                                               3x3x2 (64)

                                                                                                                                                                                                           3x3x2 (64)
                                                                                      3x3x3 (8)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RoI Align

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Adaptive Gated Fusion Network
    Point Cloud    LiDAR Backbone
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3D RoI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Fusion-based
 Camera Pipeline            Camera                                                                                                            Cross-view feature mapping                                                                                                                                     Refinement

                                                                                                                Multi-view Camera Features
                           Backbone                                                                                                                                                                             …
                            Camera                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Proposal Generation

                                                                                                                                             Feature Projection
                                                                                                                                              Auto-Calibrated
                           Backbone                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Network (RPN)
                            Camera
                           Backbone
                            Camera                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3D RoI-based
                           Backbone                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Fusion Network
                            Camera
                           Backbone
                            Camera
                                                                                                                                                                                              …                                                Gated Camera-LiDAR                              Refinement Network
                           Backbone                                                                                                                                                                                                              Feature Fusion
                                                                                                                                                                         360 degree Camera Voxel

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           …
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PointNet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3D Object
                                                                                                                                                                                                            RoI Grid-based                                                       Encoding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Detection
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Camera Feature Pooling

Fig. 2. Overall structure of 3D-CVF: After point clouds and each camera-view
image are separately processed by each backbone network, the camera-view features
are transformed to the features in BEV using the auto-calibrated feature projection.
Then, the camera and LiDAR features are fused using the gated feature fusion network.
The detection outputs are predicted after refining the proposals using 3D RoI-based
fusion network. The format of 3D convolutional layers used in the figure follows “kx x
ky x kz (channel size)” where kx , ky and kz denote the kernel sizes in each axis.

combining the camera and LiDAR features represented in different view domains.
In the next sections, we present an effective way to overcome this challenge.

3      Proposed 3D Object Detector

      In this section, we present the details of the proposed architecture.

3.1       Overall architecture

   The overall architecture of the proposed method is illustrated in Fig. 2. It
consists of five modules including the 1) LiDAR pipeline, 2) camera pipeline,
3) cross-view spatial feature mapping, 4) gated camera-LiDAR feature fusion
network, and 5) proposal generation and refinement network. Each of them is
described in the following
   LiDAR Pipeline: LiDAR points are first organized based on the LiDAR
voxel structure. The LiDAR points in each voxel are encoded by the point en-
coding network [31], which generates the fixed-length embedding vector. These
encoded LiDAR voxels are processed by six 3D sparse convolution [28] layers
with stride two, which produces the LiDAR feature map of 128 channels in the
BEV domain. After sparse convolutional layers are applied, the width and height
6      Jin Hyeok Yoo et al.

of the resulting LiDAR feature map are reduced by a factor of eight compared
to those of the LiDAR voxel structure.
    RGB Pipeline: In parallel to the LiDAR pipeline, the camera RGB images
are processed by the CNN backbone network. We use the pre-trained ResNet-
18 [6] followed by feature pyramid network (FPN) [14] to generate the camera
feature map of 256 channels represented in camera-view. The width and height
of the camera feature maps are reduced by a factor of eight compared to those
of the input RGB images.
    Cross-View Feature Mapping: The cross-view feature (CVF) mapping
generates the camera feature maps projected in BEV. The auto-calibrated pro-
jection converts the camera feature maps in camera-view to those in BEV. Then,
the projected feature map is enhanced by the additional convolutional layers and
delivered to the gated camera-LiDAR feature fusion block.
    Gated Camera-LiDAR Feature Fusion: The adaptive gated fusion net-
work is used to combine the camera feature maps and the LiDAR feature map.
The spatial attention maps are applied to both feature maps to adjust the contri-
butions from each modality depending on their importance. The adaptive gated
fusion network produces the joint camera-LiDAR feature map, which is delivered
to the 3D RoI fusion-based refinement block.
    3D RoI Fusion-based Refinement: After the region proposals are gener-
ated based on the joint camera-LiDAR feature map, the RoI pooling is applied
for proposal refinement. Since the joint camera-LiDAR feature map does not
contain sufficient spatial information, both the multi-scale LiDAR features and
camera features are extracted using 3D RoI-based pooling. These features are
separately encoded by the PointNet encoder and fused with the joint camera-
LiDAR feature map by a 3D RoI-based fusion network. The fused feature is
finally used to produce the final detection results.

3.2   Cross-View Feature Mapping

     Dense Camera Voxel Structure: The camera voxel structure is used for
the feature mapping. To generate the spatially dense features, we construct the
camera voxel structure whose width and height are two times longer than those
of the LiDAR voxel structure in the (x, y) axis. This leads to the voxel structure
with higher spatial resolution. In our design, the camera voxel structure has four
times as many voxels as the LiDAR voxel structure.
    Auto-Calibrated Projection Method: The auto-calibrated projection
technique is devised to 1) transform the camera-view feature into the BEV fea-
ture and 2) find the best correspondence between them to maximize the effect
of information fusion. The structure of the auto-calibrated projection method is
depicted in Fig. 3. First, the center of each voxel is projected to (x̂, ŷ) in the
camera-view plane using the world-to-camera-view projection matrix and (x̂, ŷ)
is adjusted by the calibration offset (∆x, ∆y). Then, the neighbor camera fea-
ture pixels near to the calibrated position (x̂ + ∆x, ŷ + ∆y) are combined with
the weights determined by interpolation methods. That is, the combined pixel
                                                                                              3D-CVF     7

                                                               3URMHFWHGFRRUGLQDWH
                                                              ZLWKWKHDXWRFDOLEUDWLRQ
                                                                    ∆,   ∆

                          $XWR&DOLEUDWHG&DPHUDWR/L'$5        ଵ , ଶ           ଶ , ଶ 
                                  )HDWXUH3URMHFWLRQ
                                                                             ⋅ ⋅
                                                              ଵ , ଵ         ଶ , ଵ           ‫ݔ‬
                                                                           ⋅⋅ ⋅
                                                                   &DPHUDIHDWXUH

                                                     ‫ݖ‬
                                                 ‫ݔ‬

                     'YR[HOPDS

Fig. 3. Illustration of the proposed auto-calibrated projection: To represent
the camera feature in BEV, the center coordinate of a voxel is projected onto the point
(x̂, ŷ) with calibration offset (∆x, ∆y) in the camera-view plane. The neighboring four
feature pixels are combined using linear interpolation and assigned to the corresponding
voxel.

vector u is given by
                                        2 X
                                        X 2
                                 u=                  wm,n fm,n ,                                        (1)
                                        m=1 n=1

where the set {fm,n } corresponds to four adjacent feature pixels closest to (x̂ +
∆x, ŷ + ∆y), and wm,n is the weight obtained by the interpolation methods. In
bilinear interpolation, wm,n is obtained using Euclidean distance as follows
                                                                                −1
                    wm,n ∝ |(xm , ym ) − (x̂ + ∆x, ŷ + ∆y))|                          ,                (2)
                                     P2     P2
where wm,n is normalized such that m=1 n=1 wm,n = 1. Then, the combined
feature u is assigned to the corresponding voxel. Note that different calibration
offsets (∆x, ∆y) are assigned to different regions in 3D space. These calibration
offset parameters can be jointly optimized along with other network weights.
The auto-calibrated projection provides spatially smooth camera feature maps
that best match with the LiDAR feature map in the BEV domain.

3.3   Gated Camera-LiDAR Feature Fusion

    Adaptive Gated Fusion Network: To extract essential features from
both camera and LiDAR sensors, we apply an adaptive gated fusion network
that selectively combines the feature maps depending on the relevance to the
8       Jin Hyeok Yoo et al.

                                         $GDSWLYH*DWHG
                                   &DPHUD/L'$5)XVLRQ1HWZRUN

                                                                  *DWHG
                       /L'$5
                       /L'$5
                                                                 /L'$5
                       )HDWXUH               [FRQY   ߪ        )HDWXUH

                       3URMHFWHG             [FRQY   ߪ         *DWHG
                        &DPHUD                                  &DPHUD
                        )HDWXUH                                  )HDWXUH

Fig. 4. Adaptive gated fusion network: The adaptive gated fusion network gen-
erates the attention maps by applying 3 × 3 convolutional layer followed by a sigmoid
function to the concatenated inputs. These attention maps are multiplied to both cam-
era and LiDAR features through the element-wise product operation.

object detection task [7]. The proposed gated fusion structure is depicted in Fig.
4. The camera and LiDAR features are gated using the attention maps as follows

                        Fg.C = FC × σ(ConvC (FC ⊕ FL ))                          (3)
                                    |       {z        }
                                             Camera Attention Map

                        Fg.L = FL × σ(ConvL (FC ⊕ FL ))                          (4)
                                    |       {z        }
                                             LiDAR Attention Map

where FC and FL represent the camera feature and LiDAR feature, respectively,
Fg.C and Fg.L are the corresponding gated features, × is the element-wise prod-
uct operation, and ⊕ is the channel-wise concatenation operation. Note that the
elements of the attention maps indicate the relative importance of the camera
and LiDAR features. After the attention maps are applied, the final joint feature
Fjoint is obtained by concatenating Fg.C and Fg.L channel-wise. (see Fig. 2.)

3.4   3D-RoI Fusion-based Refinement
    Region Proposal Generation: The initial detection results are obtained
by the region proposal network (RPN). Initial regression results and objectness
scores are predicted by applying the detection sub-network to the joint camera-
LiDAR feature. Since the initial detection results have a large number of proposal
boxes associated with objectness scores, the boxes with high objectness scores
remain through NMS post-processing with the IoU threshold 0.7.
   3D RoI-based Feature Fusion: The predicted box regression values are
translated to the global coordinates using the rotated 3D RoI alignment [12]. The
low-level LiDAR and camera features are pooled using 3D RoI-based pooling and
combined with the joint camera-LiDAR features. These low-level features retain
the detailed spatial information on objects (particularly in z axis) so that it
can provide useful information for refining the region proposals. Specifically, six
multi-scale LiDAR features corresponding to the 3D RoI boxes are pooled by 3D
RoI-based pooling. These low-level LiDAR features are individually encoded by
PointNet encoders for each scale and concatenated into a 1 × 1 feature vector.
                                                                                             3D-CVF              9

                                                                 Camera
                                                                 Feature

                                                                                 PointNet
                                                                                 Endoder
                                  Projection
                                   Domain

                                                                Feature
                                                                Pooling

                                                                           ...
                   : RoI box
                   : Grid point                                                             3D RoI Grid-based
                                                  Grid Points                                Camera Feature
          Grid Points                          in Camera-view               Feature
        in 3D RoI Box                                                      Encoding

Fig. 5. Illustration of the proposed RoI grid-based pooling of camera fea-
tures: The RoI grid-based camera feature is generated by pooling the camera features
according to the grid points in a 3D RoI box and encoding them using PointNet en-
coder.

Simultaneously, the multi-view camera features are also transformed into a 1 × 1
feature vector. Since the camera-view features are represented in a different do-
main from the 3D RoI boxes, we devise the RoI grid-based pooling. As shown in
Fig. 5, consider the r ×r ×r equally spaced coordinates in the 3D RoI box. These
points are projected to the camera view-domain and the camera feature pixels
corresponding to these points are encoded by the PointNet encoders. Concate-
nation of these encoded multi-view camera features forms another 1 × 1 feature
vector. The final feature used for proposal refinement is obtained by concate-
nating these two 1 × 1 feature vectors with the RoI aligned joint camera-LiDAR
features.

3.5   Training Loss Function

    Our 3D-CVF is trained via two-stage training process. In the first stage, we
train the network pipeline up to RPN using the RPN loss, Lrpn = β1 Lcls +
β2 (Lreg|θ + Lreg|loc ), where β1 and β2 are set to 1.0 and 2.0, respectively, and
Lreg|loc and Lreg|θ are given by the Smoothed-L1 loss [5] and modified Smoothed-
L1 loss [28], respectively. Note that we follow suggestions from [28] in parame-
terizing 3D ground truth boxes and 3D anchors. Note also that Lcls denotes the
focal loss [15]
                                                    Nbox
                                                1 X
                                  Lcls =                 −α(1 − pi )γ log(pi ),                                 (5)
                                               Nbox i=1

where Nbox denotes the total number of boxes, pi is the objectness scores for ith
box, and we set α = 0.25 and γ = 2. In the next stage, the entire network is
trained using the RPN loss Lrpn plus refinement loss Lref . The refinement loss
Lref is given by

                                  Lref = β1 Liou + β2 (Lreg|θ + Lreg|loc ),                                     (6)
10      Jin Hyeok Yoo et al.

                                               Runtime            3D AP (%)
                  Method            Modality
                                                (ms)     APEasy    APM od. APHard
                VoxelNet [31]         LiDAR     220      77.47      65.11   57.73
               SECOND [28]            LiDAR      50      83.13      73.66   66.20
               PointPillars [9]       LiDAR     16.2     79.05      74.99   68.30
              PointRCNN [22]          LiDAR     100      85.94      75.76   68.32
            Fast PointRCNN [3]        LiDAR      65      85.29      77.40   70.24
                Patches [10]          LiDAR     150      88.67      77.20   71.82
                Part A2 [23]          LiDAR      80      87.81      78.49   73.51
                  STD [30]            LiDAR      80      87.95      79.71   75.09
                 MV3D [12]         LiDAR+RGB    240      71.09      62.35   55.12
                 AVOD [8]          LiDAR+RGB     80      73.59      65.78   58.38
              F-PointNet [17]      LiDAR+RGB    170      81.20      70.39   62.19
               AVOD-FPN [8]        LiDAR+RGB    100      81.94      71.88   66.38
           UberATG-ContFuse [13]   LiDAR+RGB     60      82.54      66.22   64.04
                RoarNet [24]       LiDAR+RGB    100      83.95      75.79   67.88
            UberATG-MMF [12]       LiDAR+RGB     80      88.40      77.43   70.22
                Our 3D-CVF         LiDAR+RGB     75      89.20      80.05   73.11

Table 1. Performance on KITTI test benchmark for Car category: The model
is trained on KITTI training set and evaluated on KITTI test set. “APEasy ”,“APM od. ”,
and “APHard ” mean the average precision for “easy”, “moderate”, and “hard” difficulty
levels.

where Liou denotes the confidence score refinement loss that follows the definition
of 3D IoU loss in [11]. Further details of training procedure are provided in the
next section.

4     Experiments

    In this section, we evaluate the performance of the proposed 3D-CVF on
the KITTI [4] and nuScenes [1] datasets.

4.1   KITTI

    The KITTI dataset is the widely used dataset for evaluating 3D object detec-
tors. It contains the camera and LiDAR data collected using a single Pointgrey
camera and Velodyne HDL-64E LiDAR. The training set and test set contain
7,481 images and 7,518 images, respectively. For validation, we split the labeled
training set into the train set and valid set by half as done in [2]. The detection
task is divided into three different levels of difficulty, namely “easy”, “moderate”,
and “hard”. The average precision (AP) obtained from the 41-point precision-
recall (PR) curve was used as a performance metric.
    Training Configuration: We limited the range of point cloud to [0, 70.4]
×[−40, 40]×[−3, 1]m in (x, y, z) axis. The LiDAR voxel structure consists of
1600 × 1408 × 40 voxel grids with each voxel of size 0.05 × 0.05 × 0.1m. We aimed
to detect only cars, because the training data for other categories is not large
                                                                  3D-CVF        11

enough in KITTI dataset. Accordingly, only two anchors with different angles
(0◦ , 90◦ ) were used. To train the 3D-CVF, we used the pre-trained LiDAR
backbone network. As mentioned, training was conducted in two stages. We
first trained the network up to RPN using the ADAM optimizer with one-cycle
learning rate policy [25] over 70 epochs. The learning rate was scheduled with
the max parameter set to 3e-3, the division factor 10, the momentum range from
0.95 to 0.85, and the fixed weight decay parameter of 1e-2. The mini-batch size
was set to 12. Next, the entire network was trained over 50 epochs with the
mini-batch size of 6. The initial learning rate was set to 1e-4 for the first 30
epochs and decayed by a factor of 0.1 every 10 epochs. As a camera backbone
network, we used the ResNet-18 [6] network with FPN [14] pre-trained with the
KITTI 2D object detection dataset.

    Data Augmentation: Since we use both camera data and LiDAR point
clouds together, careful coordination between the camera and LiDAR data is nec-
essary for data augmentation. We considered random flipping, rotation, scaling,
and ground truth boxes sampling augmentation (GT-AUG) [28]. We randomly
flipped the LiDAR points and rotate the point clouds within a range of [− π4 , π4 ]
along the z axis. We also scaled the coordinates of the points with a factor within
[0.95, 1.05]. The modifications applied to the LiDAR points were reflected in the
camera images. However, it was difficult to apply GT-AUG to both LiDAR and
camera data without distortion. Hence, GT-AUG was used only when the LiDAR
backbone network was pretrained. We found that the benefit of the GT-AUG
was not negligible in KITTI due to relatively small dataset size.

    Results on KITTI Test Set: Table 1 provides the mAP performance of
several 3D object detectors evaluated on KITTI 3D object detection tasks. The
results for other algorithms are brought from the KITTI leaderboard (http://
www.cvlibs.net/datasets/kitti/eval_object.php?obj_benchmark=3d). We
observe that the proposed 3D-CVF achieves the significant performance gain over
other camera-LiDAR fusion-based detectors in the leaderboard. In particular, the
3D-CVF achieves up to 2.89% gains (for hard difficulty) over UberATG-MMF
[12], the best fusion-based method so far. The 3D-CVF outperforms most of the
LiDAR-based 3D object detectors except for the STD [30]. While the 3D-CVF
outperforms the STD [30] for easy and moderate levels but it is not for the hard
level. Since the STD [30] uses the PointNet-based backbone, it might have a
stronger LiDAR pipeline than the voxel-based backbone used in our 3D-CVF. It
would be possible to apply our sensor fusion strategies to these kinds of detectors
to improve their performance.

    Table 1 also provides the inference time of 3D object detectors. We evaluated
the interference time on 1 × NVIDIA GTX 1080 Ti. Note that the inference time
of the proposed 3D-CVF is 75ms per frame, which looks comparable to that of
other methods. We also measured the runtime of our LiDAR-only baseline. Note
that the camera-LiDAR fusion requires only 25ms additional runtime over 50ms
runtime of the LiDAR-only baseline.
12       Jin Hyeok Yoo et al.

                      Car     Ped.    Bus     Barrier   T.C.    Truck   Trailer   Moto.   mAP     NDS
   SECOND [28]        69.16   58.60   34.87   28.94     24.83   23.73    5.52     16.60   26.32   35.36
   PointPillars [9]   75.25   59.47   43.80   30.95     18.57   23.42   20.15     21.12   29.34   39.03
    MEGVII [32]       71.61   65.28   50.29   48.62     45.65   35.77   20.19     28.20   37.68   44.15
LiDAR-only Baseline   78.21   68.72   51.02   43.42     37.47   34.84   32.01     34.55   39.43   46.21
    Our 3D-CVF        79.69   71.28   54.96   47.10     40.82   37.94   36.29     37.18   42.17   49.78

Table 2. mAP and NDS performance on nuScenes validation set: The model
was trained on nuScenes train set and evaluated on nuScenes validation set. “Cons.
Veh.” and “Bicycle” classes were omitted as their accuracy was too low. The perfor-
mance of the SECOND, PointPillars, and MEGVII was reproduced using their official
codes.

4.2    nuScenes

     The nuScenes dataset is a large-scale 3D detection dataset that contains more
than 1,000 scenes in Boston and Singapore [1]. The dataset was collected using
six multi-view cameras and 32-channel LiDAR. 360-degree object annotations
for 10 object classes were provided. The dataset consists of 28,130 training sam-
ples and 6,019 validation samples. The nuScenes dataset suggests the use of an
evaluation metric called nuScenes detection score (NDS) [1].
     Training Configuration: For the nuScenes dataset, the range of point
cloud was within [−49.6, −49.6] ×[−49.6, 49.6]×[−5, 3]m in (x, y, z) axis which
was voxelized with each voxel size of 0.05 × 0.05 × 0.2m. Consequently, this
partitioning leads to the voxel structure of size 1984 × 1984 × 40. Anchor size
of each class was determined by averaging the width and height values of the
ground truths. We trained the network over 20 epochs using the same learning
rate scheduling used in the KITTI dataset. The mini-batch size was set to 6.
DS sampling [32] was adopted to alleviate the class imbalance problem in the
nuScenes dataset.
     Data Augmentation: For data augmentation, we used the same aug-
mentation strategies except for GT-AUG. Unlike KITTI dataset, we found that
skipping GT-AUG does not degrade the accuracy in nuScenes dataset.
     Results on nuScenes Validation Set: We mainly tested our 3D-CVF
on nuScenes to verify the performance gain achieved by sensor fusion. For this
purpose, we compared the proposed 3D-CVF with the baseline algorithm, which
has the same structure as our method except that the camera pipeline is disabled.
For a fair comparison, DS sampling strategy was also applied to the baseline. As
a reference, we also added the performance of the SECOND [28], PointPillar [9],
and MEGVII [32]. Table 2 provides the AP for 8 classes, mAP, and NDS achieved
by several 3D object detectors. We observe that the sensor fusion offers 2.74%
and 3.57% performance gains over the baseline in the mAP and NDS metrics,
respectively. The performance of the proposed method consistently outperforms
the baseline in terms of AP for all classes. In particular, the detection accuracy
is significantly improved for classes with relatively low APs. This shows that the
                                                                                   3D-CVF          13

                                         Proposed Fusion Strategy                  3D AP (%)
      Method          Modality    Adaptive     Cross-View 3D RoI-based
                                                                           APEasy APM od. APHard
                                 Gated Fusion   Mapping       Refinement
LiDAR-only Baseline   LiDAR                                                88.35     78.31     77.08
                                                                           88.74     78.54     77.25
                      LiDAR
                                      X                                    88.89     79.19     77.87
   Our 3D-CVF           +
                                      X            X                       89.39     79.25     78.02
                       RGB
                                      X            X             X         89.67     79.88     78.47

Table 3. Ablation study on KITTI valid set for Car category: The effect of
our camera-LiDAR fusion schemes is highlighted in this study.

camera modality is useful to detect objects that are relatively difficult to identify
with LiDAR sensors.

4.3   Ablation study
    In Table 3, we present an ablation study for validating the effect of the
ideas in the proposed 3D-CVF method. Note that our ablation study has been
conducted on the KITTI valid set. Overall, our ablation study shows that the
fusion strategy used in our 3D-CVF offers 1.32%, 1.57%, and 1.39% gains in
APEasy APM od. and APHard over the LiDAR-only baseline.
    Effect of Naive Camera-LiDAR fusion: We observe that when the cam-
era and LiDAR features are fused without cross-view feature mapping, adaptive
gated fusion network, and 3D RoI fusion-based refinement, the improvement in
detection accuracy is marginal.
    Effect of Adaptive Gated Fusion Network: The adaptive gated fusion
network leads to 0.54%, 0.87%, and 0.79% performance boost in APEasy , APM od.
and APHard levels, respectively. By combining the camera and LiDAR features
selectively depending on their relevance to the detection task, our method can
generate the enhanced joint camera-LiDAR feature.
    Effect of Cross-View Feature Mapping: The auto-calibrated projection
generates the smooth and dense camera features in the BEV domain. The detec-
tion accuracy improves over the baseline by 0.5%, 0.06%, and 0.15% in APEasy
APM od. and APHard , respectively.
    Effect of 3D RoI Fusion-based Refinement: We observe that the 3D
RoI fusion-based refinement improves APEasy APM od. and APHard by 0.28%,
0.63%, and 0.45%, respectively. It indicates that our 3D RoI fusion-based refine-
ment compensates the lack of spatial information in the joint camera-LiDAR
features that may occur due to processing through many CNN pipelines.

4.4   Performance Evaluation based on Object Distance
    To investigate the effectiveness of sensor fusion, we evaluated the detection
accuracy of the 3D-CVF for different object distances. We categorized the ob-
jects in the KITTI valid set into three classes according to the distance ranges
14      Jin Hyeok Yoo et al.

                                              3D AP (%)
                    Method
                                    0 ∼ 20m    20 ∼ 40m    40 ∼ 70m

              LiDAR-only Baseline    89.86      76.72        30.57
                  Our 3D-CVF         90.02      79.73       35.86
                  improvement        +0.16      +3.01       +5.29

Table 4. Accuracy of 3D-CVF for different object distance ranges: The
model is trained on KITTI train set and evaluated on KITTI valid set. We provide
the detection accuracy of the 3D-CVF for object distance ranges, (0∼20m), (20∼40m),
and (40∼70m).

(0∼20m), (20∼40m), and (40∼70m). Table 4 provides the mAPs achieved by the
3D-CVF for three classes of objects. Note that the performance gain achieved
by the sensor fusion is significantly higher for distant objects. The difference of
mAP between nearby and distant objects is up to 5%. This result indicates that
the LiDAR-only baseline is not sufficient to detect distant objects due to the
sparseness of LiDAR points and the camera modality successfully compensates
it.

5    Conclusions

    In this paper, we proposed a new camera and LiDAR fusion architecture for
3D object detection. The 3D-CVF achieved multi-modal fusion over two object
detection stages. In the first stage, to generate the effective joint representation
of camera and LiDAR data, we introduced the cross-view feature mapping that
transforms the camera-view feature map into the calibrated and interpolated
feature map in BEV. The camera and LiDAR features were selectively combined
based on the relevance to the detection task using the adaptive gated fusion
network. In the second stage, the 3D RoI-based fusion network refined the region
proposals by pooling low-level camera and LiDAR features by 3D RoI pooling
and fusing them after PointNet encoding. Our evaluation conducted on KITTI
and nuScenes datasets confirmed that significant performance gain was achieved
by the camera-LiDAR fusion and the proposed 3D-CVF outperformed the state-
of-the-art 3D object detectors in KITTI leaderboard.

Acknowledgements

   This work was supported by Institute of Information & Communications
Technology Planning & Evaluation (IITP) grant funded by the Korea govern-
ment (MSIT) (2016-0-00564, Development of Intelligent Interaction Technology
Based on Context Awareness and Human Intention Understanding).
                                                                        3D-CVF         15

References

 1. Caesar, H., Bankiti, V., Lang, A.H., Vora, S., Liong, V.E., Xu, Q., Krishnan, A.,
    Pan, Y., Baldan, G., Beijbom, O.: nuscenes: A multimodal dataset for autonomous
    driving. arXiv preprint arXiv:1903.11027 (2019)
 2. Chen, X., Ma, H., Wan, J., Li, B., Xia, T.: Multi-view 3d object detection network
    for autonomous driving. In: Proceedings of the IEEE conference on Computer
    Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR). pp. 1907–1915 (2017)
 3. Chen, Y., Liu, S., Shen, X., Jia, J.: Fast point r-cnn. In: Proceedings of the IEEE
    International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV). pp. 9775–9784 (2019)
 4. Geiger, A., Lenz, P., Urtasun, R.: Are we ready for autonomous driving? the kitti
    vision benchmark suite. In: Proceedings of the IEEE conference on Computer Vi-
    sion and Pattern Recognition (CVPR). pp. 3354–3361. IEEE (2012)
 5. Girshick, R.: Fast r-cnn. IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision
    (ICCV) pp. 1440–1448 (2015)
 6. He, K., Zhang, X., Ren, S., Sun, J.: Deep residual learning for image recognition. In:
    Proceedings of the IEEE conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition
    (CVPR). pp. 770–778 (2016)
 7. Kim, J., Koh, J., Kim, Y., Choi, J., Hwang, Y., Choi, J.W.: Robust deep multi-
    modal learning based on gated information fusion network. In: Asian Conference
    on Computer Vision (ACCV). pp. 90–106. Springer (2018)
 8. Ku, J., Mozifian, M., Lee, J., Harakeh, A., Waslander, S.L.: Joint 3d proposal gen-
    eration and object detection from view aggregation. In: IEEE/RSJ International
    Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS). pp. 1–8. IEEE (2018)
 9. Lang, A.H., Vora, S., Caesar, H., Zhou, L., Yang, J., Beijbom, O.: Pointpillars:
    Fast encoders for object detection from point clouds. In: Proceedings of the IEEE
    conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR). pp. 12697–12705
    (2019)
10. Lehner, J., Mitterecker, A., Adler, T., Hofmarcher, M., Nessler, B., Hochreiter, S.:
    Patch refinement–localized 3d object detection. arXiv preprint arXiv:1910.04093
    (2019)
11. Li, B., Ouyang, W., Sheng, L., Zeng, X., Wang, X.: Gs3d: An efficient 3d object de-
    tection framework for autonomous driving. In: Proceedings of the IEEE Conference
    on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition. pp. 1019–1028 (2019)
12. Liang, M., Yang, B., Chen, Y., Hu, R., Urtasun, R.: Multi-task multi-sensor fusion
    for 3d object detection. In: Proceedings of the IEEE conference on Computer Vision
    and Pattern Recognition (CVPR). pp. 7345–7353 (2019)
13. Liang, M., Yang, B., Wang, S., Urtasun, R.: Deep continuous fusion for multi-sensor
    3d object detection. In: Proceedings of the European Conference on Computer
    Vision (ECCV). pp. 641–656 (2018)
14. Lin, T.Y., Dollár, P., Girshick, R., He, K., Hariharan, B., Belongie, S.: Feature
    pyramid networks for object detection. In: Proceedings of the IEEE conference on
    Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR). pp. 2117–2125 (2017)
15. Lin, T.Y., Goyal, P., Girshick, R., He, K., Dollár, P.: Focal loss for dense object
    detection. In: Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Computer
    Vision (ICCV). pp. 2980–2988 (2017)
16. Liu, W., Anguelov, D., Erhan, D., Szegedy, C., Reed, S., Fu, C.Y., Berg, A.C.: Ssd:
    Single shot multibox detector. European Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV)
    pp. 21–37 (2016)
16      Jin Hyeok Yoo et al.

17. Qi, C.R., Liu, W., Wu, C., Su, H., Guibas, L.J.: Frustum pointnets for 3d object
    detection from rgb-d data. In: Proceedings of the IEEE conference on Computer
    Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR). pp. 918–927 (2018)
18. Qi, C.R., Su, H., Mo, K., Guibas, L.J.: Pointnet: Deep learning on point sets
    for 3d classification and segmentation. In: Proceedings of the IEEE conference on
    Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR). pp. 652–660 (2017)
19. Qi, C.R., Yi, L., Su, H., Guibas, L.J.: Pointnet++: Deep hierarchical feature learn-
    ing on point sets in a metric space. In: Advances in Neural Information Processing
    Systems (NeurIPS). pp. 5099–5108 (2017)
20. Redmon, J., Farhadi, A.: Yolo9000: Better, faster, stronger. Proceedings of the
    IEEE conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) pp. 6517–
    6525 (2017)
21. Ren, S., He, K., Girshick, R., Sun, J.: Faster r-cnn: Towards real-time object de-
    tection with region proposal networks. Advances in Neural Information Processing
    Systems (NeurIPS) pp. 91–99 (2015)
22. Shi, S., Wang, X., Li, H.: Pointrcnn: 3d object proposal generation and detection
    from point cloud. In: Proceedings of the IEEE conference on Computer Vision and
    Pattern Recognition (CVPR). pp. 770–779 (2019)
23. Shi, S., Wang, Z., Wang, X., Li, H.: Part-aˆ 2 net: 3d part-aware and ag-
    gregation neural network for object detection from point cloud. arXiv preprint
    arXiv:1907.03670 (2019)
24. Shin, K., Kwon, Y.P., Tomizuka, M.: Roarnet: A robust 3d object detection based
    on region approximation refinement. In: IEEE Intelligent Vehicles Symposium (IV).
    pp. 2510–2515. IEEE (2019)
25. Smith, L.N.: A disciplined approach to neural network hyper-parameters: Part
    1–learning rate, batch size, momentum, and weight decay. arXiv preprint
    arXiv:1803.09820 (2018)
26. Wang, Z., Jia, K.: Frustum convnet: Sliding frustums to aggregate local point-wise
    features for amodal 3d object detection. arXiv preprint arXiv:1903.01864 (2019)
27. Xu, D., Anguelov, D., Jain, A.: Pointfusion: Deep sensor fusion for 3d bounding
    box estimation. In: Proceedings of the IEEE conference on Computer Vision and
    Pattern Recognition (CVPR). pp. 244–253 (2018)
28. Yan, Y., Mao, Y., Li, B.: Second: Sparsely embedded convolutional detection.
    Sensors 18(10), 3337 (2018)
29. Yang, B., Luo, W., Urtasun, R.: Pixor: Real-time 3d object detection from point
    clouds. In: Proceedings of the IEEE conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
    Recognition (CVPR). pp. 7652–7660 (2018)
30. Yang, Z., Sun, Y., Liu, S., Shen, X., Jia, J.: Std: Sparse-to-dense 3d object detector
    for point cloud. In: Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Computer
    Vision (ICCV). pp. 1951–1960 (2019)
31. Zhou, Y., Tuzel, O.: Voxelnet: End-to-end learning for point cloud based 3d object
    detection. In: Proceedings of the IEEE conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
    Recognition (CVPR). pp. 4490–4499 (2018)
32. Zhu, B., Jiang, Z., Zhou, X., Li, Z., Yu, G.: Class-balanced grouping and sampling
    for point cloud 3d object detection. arXiv preprint arXiv:1908.09492 (2019)
