---
source_id: 146
bibtex_key: lin2014coco
title: Microsoft COCO: Common Objects in Context
year: 2014
domain_theme: Dataset
verified_pdf: 146_Microsoft COCO.pdf
char_count: 88863
---

1

                                            Microsoft COCO: Common Objects in Context
                                                       Tsung-Yi Lin          Michael Maire Serge Belongie                       Lubomir Bourdev Ross Girshick
                                                       James Hays            Pietro Perona Deva Ramanan                         C. Lawrence Zitnick Piotr Dollár

                                              Abstract—We present a new dataset with the goal of advancing the state-of-the-art in object recognition by placing the question of
                                              object recognition in the context of the broader question of scene understanding. This is achieved by gathering images of complex
                                              everyday scenes containing common objects in their natural context. Objects are labeled using per-instance segmentations to aid in
                                              precise object localization. Our dataset contains photos of 91 objects types that would be easily recognizable by a 4 year old. With a
                                              total of 2.5 million labeled instances in 328k images, the creation of our dataset drew upon extensive crowd worker involvement via
                                              novel user interfaces for category detection, instance spotting and instance segmentation. We present a detailed statistical analysis of
                                              the dataset in comparison to PASCAL, ImageNet, and SUN. Finally, we provide baseline performance analysis for bounding box and
                                              segmentation detection results using a Deformable Parts Model.
arXiv:1405.0312v3 [cs.CV] 21 Feb 2015

                                                                                                                     F

                                        1    I NTRODUCTION
                                        One of the primary goals of computer vision is the
                                        understanding of visual scenes. Scene understanding
                                        involves numerous tasks including recognizing what
                                        objects are present, localizing the objects in 2D and 3D,
                                        determining the objects’ and scene’s attributes, charac-
                                        terizing relationships between objects and providing a
                                        semantic description of the scene. The current object clas-
                                        sification and detection datasets [1], [2], [3], [4] help us
                                        explore the first challenges related to scene understand-
                                        ing. For instance the ImageNet dataset [1], which con-
                                        tains an unprecedented number of images, has recently
                                        enabled breakthroughs in both object classification and
                                        detection research [5], [6], [7]. The community has also                         Fig. 1: While previous object recognition datasets have
                                        created datasets containing object attributes [8], scene                         focused on (a) image classification, (b) object bounding
                                        attributes [9], keypoints [10], and 3D scene information                         box localization or (c) semantic pixel-level segmentation,
                                        [11]. This leads us to the obvious question: what datasets                       we focus on (d) segmenting individual object instances.
                                        will best continue our advance towards our ultimate goal                         We introduce a large, richly-annotated dataset comprised
                                        of scene understanding?                                                          of images depicting complex everyday scenes of com-
                                           We introduce a new large-scale dataset that addresses                         mon objects in their natural context.
                                        three core research problems in scene understanding: de-
                                        tecting non-iconic views (or non-canonical perspectives
                                        [12]) of objects, contextual reasoning between objects
                                                                                                                         background, partially occluded, amid clutter [13] – re-
                                        and the precise 2D localization of objects. For many
                                                                                                                         flecting the composition of actual everyday scenes. We
                                        categories of objects, there exists an iconic view. For
                                                                                                                         verify this experimentally; when evaluated on everyday
                                        example, when performing a web-based image search
                                                                                                                         scenes, models trained on our data perform better than
                                        for the object category “bike,” the top-ranked retrieved
                                                                                                                         those trained with prior datasets. A challenge is finding
                                        examples appear in profile, unobstructed near the cen-
                                                                                                                         natural images that contain multiple objects. The identity
                                        ter of a neatly composed photo. We posit that current
                                                                                                                         of many objects can only be resolved using context, due
                                        recognition systems perform fairly well on iconic views,
                                                                                                                         to small size or ambiguous appearance in the image. To
                                        but struggle to recognize objects otherwise – in the
                                                                                                                         push research in contextual reasoning, images depicting
                                                                                                                         scenes [3] rather than objects in isolation are necessary.
                                        • T.Y. Lin and S. Belongie are with Cornell NYC Tech and the Cornell
                                          Computer Science Department.
                                                                                                                         Finally, we argue that detailed spatial understanding of
                                        • M. Maire is with the Toyota Technological Institute at Chicago.                object layout will be a core component of scene analysis.
                                        • L. Bourdev and P. Dollár are with Facebook AI Research. The majority of       An object’s spatial location can be defined coarsely using
                                          this work was performed while P. Dollár was with Microsoft Research.
                                        • R. Girshick and C. L. Zitnick are with Microsoft Research, Redmond.
                                                                                                                         a bounding box [2] or with a precise pixel-level segmen-
                                        • J. Hays is with Brown University.                                              tation [14], [15], [16]. As we demonstrate, to measure
                                        • P. Perona is with the California Institute of Technology.                      either kind of localization performance it is essential
                                        • D. Ramanan is with the University of California at Irvine.
                                                                                                                         for the dataset to have every instance of every object
2

category labeled and fully segmented. Our dataset is             Image Classification The task of object classification
unique in its annotation of instance-level segmentation       requires binary labels indicating whether objects are
masks, Fig. 1.                                                present in an image; see Fig. 1(a). Early datasets of this
   To create a large-scale dataset that accomplishes these    type comprised images containing a single object with
three goals we employed a novel pipeline for gathering        blank backgrounds, such as the MNIST handwritten
data with extensive use of Amazon Mechanical Turk.            digits [25] or COIL household objects [26]. Caltech 101
First and most importantly, we harvested a large set          [22] and Caltech 256 [23] marked the transition to more
of images containing contextual relationships and non-        realistic object images retrieved from the internet while
iconic object views. We accomplished this using a sur-        also increasing the number of object categories to 101
prisingly simple yet effective technique that queries for     and 256, respectively. Popular datasets in the machine
pairs of objects in conjunction with images retrieved         learning community due to the larger number of training
via scene-based queries [17], [3]. Next, each image was       examples, CIFAR-10 and CIFAR-100 [27] offered 10 and
labeled as containing particular object categories using      100 categories from a dataset of tiny 32 × 32 images [28].
a hierarchical labeling approach [18]. For each category      While these datasets contained up to 60,000 images and
found, the individual instances were labeled, verified,       hundreds of categories, they still only captured a small
and finally segmented. Given the inherent ambiguity of        fraction of our visual world.
labeling, each of these stages has numerous tradeoffs that       Recently, ImageNet [1] made a striking departure from
we explored in detail.                                        the incremental increase in dataset sizes. They proposed
   The Microsoft Common Objects in COntext (MS                the creation of a dataset containing 22k categories with
COCO) dataset contains 91 common object categories            500-1000 images each. Unlike previous datasets contain-
with 82 of them having more than 5,000 labeled in-            ing entry-level categories [29], such as “dog” or “chair,”
stances, Fig. 6. In total the dataset has 2,500,000 labeled   like [28], ImageNet used the WordNet Hierarchy [30] to
instances in 328,000 images. In contrast to the popular       obtain both entry-level and fine-grained [31] categories.
ImageNet dataset [1], COCO has fewer categories but           Currently, the ImageNet dataset contains over 14 million
more instances per category. This can aid in learning         labeled images and has enabled significant advances in
detailed object models capable of precise 2D localization.    image classification [5], [6], [7].
The dataset is also significantly larger in number of in-
                                                                 Object detection Detecting an object entails both
stances per category than the PASCAL VOC [2] and SUN
                                                              stating that an object belonging to a specified class is
[3] datasets. Additionally, a critical distinction between
                                                              present, and localizing it in the image. The location of
our dataset and others is the number of labeled instances
                                                              an object is typically represented by a bounding box,
per image which may aid in learning contextual informa-
                                                              Fig. 1(b). Early algorithms focused on face detection [32]
tion, Fig. 5. MS COCO contains considerably more object
                                                              using various ad hoc datasets. Later, more realistic and
instances per image (7.7) as compared to ImageNet (3.0)
                                                              challenging face detection datasets were created [33].
and PASCAL (2.3). In contrast, the SUN dataset, which
                                                              Another popular challenge is the detection of pedestri-
contains significant contextual information, has over 17
                                                              ans for which several datasets have been created [24],
objects and “stuff” per image but considerably fewer
                                                              [4]. The Caltech Pedestrian Dataset [4] contains 350,000
object instances overall.
   An abridged version of this work appeared in [19].         labeled instances with bounding boxes.
                                                                 For the detection of basic object categories, a multi-
2 R ELATED W ORK                                              year effort from 2005 to 2012 was devoted to the creation
Throughout the history of computer vision research            and maintenance of a series of benchmark datasets that
datasets have played a critical role. They not only pro-      were widely adopted. The PASCAL VOC [2] datasets
vide a means to train and evaluate algorithms, they           contained 20 object categories spread over 11,000 images.
drive research in new and more challenging directions.        Over 27,000 object instance bounding boxes were la-
The creation of ground truth stereo and optical flow          beled, of which almost 7,000 had detailed segmentations.
datasets [20], [21] helped stimulate a flood of interest      Recently, a detection challenge has been created from 200
in these areas. The early evolution of object recognition     object categories using a subset of 400,000 images from
datasets [22], [23], [24] facilitated the direct comparison   ImageNet [34]. An impressive 350,000 objects have been
of hundreds of image recognition algorithms while si-         labeled using bounding boxes.
multaneously pushing the field towards more complex              Since the detection of many objects such as sunglasses,
problems. Recently, the ImageNet dataset [1] containing       cellphones or chairs is highly dependent on contextual
millions of images has enabled breakthroughs in both          information, it is important that detection datasets con-
object classification and detection research using a new      tain objects in their natural environments. In our dataset
class of deep learning algorithms [5], [6], [7].              we strive to collect images rich in contextual information.
   Datasets related to object recognition can be roughly      The use of bounding boxes also limits the accuracy
split into three groups: those that primarily address         for which detection algorithms may be evaluated. We
object classification, object detection and semantic scene    propose the use of fully segmented instances to enable
labeling. We address each in turn.                            more accurate detector evaluation.
                                                                                                                           3

          Fig. 2: Example of (a) iconic object images, (b) iconic scene images, and (c) non-iconic images.

  Semantic scene labeling The task of labeling se-             3     I MAGE C OLLECTION
mantic objects in a scene requires that each pixel of an       We next describe how the object categories and candi-
image be labeled as belonging to a category, such as           date images are selected.
sky, chair, floor, street, etc. In contrast to the detection
task, individual instances of objects do not need to be
segmented, Fig. 1(c). This enables the labeling of objects     3.1   Common Object Categories
for which individual instances are hard to define, such        The selection of object categories is a non-trivial exercise.
as grass, streets, or walls. Datasets exist for both indoor    The categories must form a representative set of all
[11] and outdoor [35], [14] scenes. Some datasets also         categories, be relevant to practical applications and occur
include depth information [11]. Similar to semantic scene      with high enough frequency to enable the collection of
labeling, our goal is to measure the pixel-wise accuracy       a large dataset. Other important decisions are whether
of object labels. However, we also aim to distinguish          to include both “thing” and “stuff” categories [39] and
between individual instances of an object, which requires      whether fine-grained [31], [1] and object-part categories
a solid understanding of each object’s extent.                 should be included. “Thing” categories include objects
                                                               for which individual instances may be easily labeled
   A novel dataset that combines many of the properties        (person, chair, car) where “stuff” categories include
of both object detection and semantic scene labeling           materials and objects with no clear boundaries (sky,
datasets is the SUN dataset [3] for scene understanding.       street, grass). Since we are primarily interested in pre-
SUN contains 908 scene categories from the WordNet             cise localization of object instances, we decided to only
dictionary [30] with segmented objects. The 3,819 ob-          include “thing” categories and not “stuff.” However,
ject categories span those common to object detection          since “stuff” categories can provide significant contex-
datasets (person, chair, car) and to semantic scene la-        tual information, we believe the future labeling of “stuff”
beling (wall, sky, floor). Since the dataset was collected     categories would be beneficial.
by finding images depicting various scene types, the              The specificity of object categories can vary signifi-
number of instances per object category exhibits the long      cantly. For instance, a dog could be a member of the
tail phenomenon. That is, a few categories have a large        “mammal”, “dog”, or “German shepherd” categories. To
number of instances (wall: 20,213, window: 16,080, chair:      enable the practical collection of a significant number
7,971) while most have a relatively modest number of           of instances per category, we chose to limit our dataset
instances (boat: 349, airplane: 179, floor lamp: 276). In      to entry-level categories, i.e. category labels that are
our dataset, we ensure that each object category has a         commonly used by humans when describing objects
significant number of instances, Fig. 5.                       (dog, chair, person). It is also possible that some object
                                                               categories may be parts of other object categories. For in-
   Other vision datasets Datasets have spurred the ad-         stance, a face may be part of a person. We anticipate the
vancement of numerous fields in computer vision. Some          inclusion of object-part categories (face, hands, wheels)
notable datasets include the Middlebury datasets for           would be beneficial for many real-world applications.
stereo vision [20], multi-view stereo [36] and optical flow       We used several sources to collect entry-level object
[21]. The Berkeley Segmentation Data Set (BSDS500) [37]        categories of “things.” We first compiled a list of cate-
has been used extensively to evaluate both segmentation        gories by combining categories from PASCAL VOC [2]
and edge detection algorithms. Datasets have also been         and a subset of the 1200 most frequently used words
created to recognize both scene [9] and object attributes      that denote visually identifiable objects [40]. To further
[8], [38]. Indeed, numerous areas of vision have benefited     augment our set of candidate categories, several children
from challenging datasets that helped catalyze progress.       ranging in ages from 4 to 8 were asked to name every
4

Fig. 3: Our annotation pipeline is split into 3 primary tasks: (a) labeling the categories present in the image (§4.1),
(b) locating and marking all instances of the labeled categories (§4.2), and (c) segmenting each object instance (§4.3).

object they see in indoor and outdoor environments.            iconic images of large, centered dogs. However, if we
The final 272 candidates may be found in the appendix.         searched for pairwise combinations of object categories,
Finally, the co-authors voted on a 1 to 5 scale for each       such as “dog + car” we found many more non-iconic
category taking into account how commonly they oc-             images. Surprisingly, these images typically do not just
cur, their usefulness for practical applications, and their    contain the two categories specified in the search, but nu-
diversity relative to other categories. The final selec-       merous other categories as well. To further supplement
tion of categories attempts to pick categories with high       our dataset we also searched for scene/object category
votes, while keeping the number of categories per super-       pairs, see the appendix. We downloaded at most 5
category (animals, vehicles, furniture, etc.) balanced. Cat-   photos taken by a single photographer within a short
egories for which obtaining a large number of instances        time window. In the rare cases in which enough images
(greater than 5,000) was difficult were also removed.          could not be found, we searched for single categories
To ensure backwards compatibility all categories from          and performed an explicit filtering stage to remove iconic
PASCAL VOC [2] are also included. Our final list of 91         images. The result is a collection of 328,000 images with
proposed categories is in Fig. 5(a).                           rich contextual relationships between objects as shown
                                                               in Figs. 2(c) and 6.
3.2 Non-iconic Image Collection
Given the list of object categories, our next goal was to      4     I MAGE A NNOTATION
collect a set of candidate images. We may roughly group        We next describe how we annotated our image collec-
images into three types, Fig. 2: iconic-object images [41],    tion. Due to our desire to label over 2.5 million object
iconic-scene images [3] and non-iconic images. Typical         instances, the design of a cost efficient yet high quality
iconic-object images have a single large object in a           annotation pipeline was critical. The annotation pipeline
canonical perspective centered in the image, Fig. 2(a).        is outlined in Fig. 3. For all crowdsourcing tasks we
Iconic-scene images are shot from canonical viewpoints         used workers on Amazon’s Mechanical Turk (AMT). Our
and commonly lack people, Fig. 2(b). Iconic images have        user interfaces are described in detail in the appendix.
the benefit that they may be easily found by directly          Note that, since the original version of this work [19],
searching for specific categories using Google or Bing         we have taken a number of steps to further improve
image search. While iconic images generally provide            the quality of the annotations. In particular, we have
high quality object instances, they can lack important         increased the number of annotators for the category
contextual information and non-canonical viewpoints.           labeling and instance spotting stages to eight. We also
   Our goal was to collect a dataset such that a majority      added a stage to verify the instance segmentations.
of images are non-iconic, Fig. 2(c). It has been shown that
datasets containing more non-iconic images are better at
generalizing [42]. We collected non-iconic images using        4.1   Category Labeling
two strategies. First as popularized by PASCAL VOC             The first task in annotating our dataset is determin-
[2], we collected images from Flickr which tends to have       ing which object categories are present in each image,
fewer iconic images. Flickr contains photos uploaded by        Fig. 3(a). Since we have 91 categories and a large number
amateur photographers with searchable metadata and             of images, asking workers to answer 91 binary clas-
keywords. Second, we did not search for object cate-           sification questions per image would be prohibitively
gories in isolation. A search for “dog” will tend to return    expensive. Instead, we used a hierarchical approach [18].
                                                                                                                        5

                           (a)                                                           (b)
Fig. 4: Worker precision and recall for the category labeling task. (a) The union of multiple AMT workers (blue)
has better recall than any expert (red). Ground truth was computed using majority vote of the experts. (b) Shows
the number of workers (circle size) and average number of jobs per worker (circle color) for each precision/recall
range. Most workers have high precision; such workers generally also complete more jobs. For this plot ground
truth for each worker is the union of responses from all other AMT workers. See §4.4 for details.

   We group the object categories into 11 super-categories     4.3   Instance Segmentation
(see the appendix). For a given image, a worker was
                                                               Our final stage is the laborious task of segmenting each
presented with each group of categories in turn and
                                                               object instance, Fig. 3(c). For this stage we modified
asked to indicate whether any instances exist for that
                                                               the excellent user interface developed by Bell et al. [16]
super-category. This greatly reduces the time needed to
                                                               for image segmentation. Our interface asks the worker
classify the various categories. For example, a worker
                                                               to segment an object instance specified by a worker in
may easily determine no animals are present in the im-
                                                               the previous stage. If other instances have already been
age without having to specifically look for cats, dogs, etc.
                                                               segmented in the image, those segmentations are shown
If a worker determines instances from the super-category
                                                               to the worker. A worker may also indicate there are
(animal) are present, for each subordinate category (dog,
                                                               no object instances of the given category in the image
cat, etc.) present, the worker must drag the category’s
                                                               (implying a false positive label from the previous stage)
icon onto the image over one instance of the category.
                                                               or that all object instances are already segmented.
The placement of these icons is critical for the following
                                                                  Segmenting 2,500,000 object instances is an extremely
stage. We emphasize that only a single instance of each
                                                               time consuming task requiring over 22 worker hours per
category needs to be annotated in this stage. To ensure
                                                               1,000 segmentations. To minimize cost we only had a
high recall, 8 workers were asked to label each image. A
                                                               single worker segment each instance. However, when
category is considered present if any worker indicated
                                                               first completing the task, most workers produced only
the category; false positives are handled in subsequent
                                                               coarse instance outlines. As a consequence, we required
stages. A detailed analysis of performance is presented
                                                               all workers to complete a training task for each object
in §4.4. This stage took ∼20k worker hours to complete.
                                                               category. The training task required workers to segment
                                                               an object instance. Workers could not complete the task
4.2   Instance Spotting                                        until their segmentation adequately matched the ground
In the next stage all instances of the object categories       truth. The use of a training task vastly improved the
in an image were labeled, Fig. 3(b). In the previous           quality of the workers (approximately 1 in 3 workers
stage each worker labeled one instance of a category, but      passed the training stage) and resulting segmentations.
multiple object instances may exist. Therefore, for each       Example segmentations may be viewed in Fig. 6.
image, a worker was asked to place a cross on top of              While the training task filtered out most bad workers,
each instance of a specific category found in the previous     we also performed an explicit verification step on each
stage. To boost recall, the location of the instance found     segmented instance to ensure good quality. Multiple
by a worker in the previous stage was shown to the             workers (3 to 5) were asked to judge each segmentation
current worker. Such priming helped workers quickly            and indicate whether it matched the instance well or not.
find an initial instance upon first seeing the image. The      Segmentations of insufficient quality were discarded and
workers could also use a magnifying glass to find small        the corresponding instances added back to the pool of
instances. Each worker was asked to label at most 10           unsegmented objects. Finally, some approved workers
instances of a given category per image. Each image was        consistently produced poor segmentations; all work ob-
labeled by 8 workers for a total of ∼10k worker hours.         tained from such workers was discarded.
6

   For images containing 10 object instances or fewer            5   DATASET S TATISTICS
of a given category, every instance was individually             Next, we analyze the properties of the Microsoft Com-
segmented (note that in some images up to 15 instances           mon Objects in COntext (MS COCO) dataset in com-
were segmented). Occasionally the number of instances            parison to several other popular datasets. These include
is drastically higher; for example, consider a dense             ImageNet [1], PASCAL VOC 2012 [2], and SUN [3]. Each
crowd of people or a truckload of bananas. In such               of these datasets varies significantly in size, list of labeled
cases, many instances of the same category may be                categories and types of images. ImageNet was created
tightly grouped together and distinguishing individual           to capture a large number of object categories, many of
instances is difficult. After 10-15 instances of a category      which are fine-grained. SUN focuses on labeling scene
were segmented in an image, the remaining instances              types and the objects that commonly occur in them.
were marked as “crowds” using a single (possibly multi-          Finally, PASCAL VOC’s primary application is object
part) segment. For the purpose of evaluation, areas              detection in natural images. MS COCO is designed for
marked as crowds will be ignored and not affect a                the detection and segmentation of objects occurring in
detector’s score. Details are given in the appendix.             their natural context.
                                                                    The number of instances per category for all 91 cate-
4.4 Annotation Performance Analysis
                                                                 gories is shown in Fig. 5(a). A summary of the datasets
We analyzed crowd worker quality on the category                 showing the number of object categories and the number
labeling task by comparing to dedicated expert workers,          of instances per category is shown in Fig. 5(d). While MS
see Fig. 4(a). We compared precision and recall of seven         COCO has fewer categories than ImageNet and SUN, it
expert workers (co-authors of the paper) with the results        has more instances per category which we hypothesize
obtained by taking the union of one to ten AMT workers.          will be useful for learning complex models capable of
Ground truth was computed using majority vote of the             precise localization. In comparison to PASCAL VOC, MS
experts. For this task recall is of primary importance           COCO has both more categories and instances.
as false positives could be removed in later stages.                An important property of our dataset is we strive
Fig. 4(a) shows that the union of 8 AMT workers, the             to find non-iconic images containing objects in their
same number as was used to collect our labels, achieved          natural context. The amount of contextual information
greater recall than any of the expert workers. Note that         present in an image can be estimated by examining the
worker recall saturates at around 9-10 AMT workers.              average number of object categories and instances per
   Object category presence is often ambiguous. Indeed           image, Fig. 5(b, c). For ImageNet we plot the object
as Fig. 4(a) indicates, even dedicated experts often dis-        detection validation set, since the training data only has
agree on object presence, e.g. due to inherent ambiguity         a single object labeled. On average our dataset contains
in the image or disagreement about category definitions.         3.5 categories and 7.7 instances per image. In comparison
For any unambiguous examples having a probability                ImageNet and PASCAL VOC both have less than 2 cat-
of over 50% of being annotated, the probability all 8            egories and 3 instances per image on average. Another
annotators missing such a case is at most .58 ≈ .004.            interesting observation is only 10% of the images in MS
Additionally, by observing how recall increased as we            COCO have only one category per image, in comparison,
added annotators, we estimate that in practice over 99%          over 60% of images contain a single object category in
of all object categories not later rejected as false positives   ImageNet and PASCAL VOC. As expected, the SUN
are detected given 8 annotators. Note that a similar             dataset has the most contextual information since it is
analysis may be done for instance spotting in which 8            scene-based and uses an unrestricted set of categories.
annotators were also used.                                          Finally, we analyze the average size of objects in the
   Finally, Fig. 4(b) re-examines precision and recall of        datasets. Generally smaller objects are harder to recog-
AMT workers on category labeling on a much larger set            nize and require more contextual reasoning to recognize.
of images. The number of workers (circle size) and aver-         As shown in Fig. 5(e), the average sizes of objects is
age number of jobs per worker (circle color) is shown for        smaller for both MS COCO and SUN.
each precision/recall range. Unlike in Fig. 4(a), we used
a leave-one-out evaluation procedure where a category
was considered present if any of the remaining workers           6   DATASET S PLITS
named the category. Therefore, overall worker precision          To accommodate a faster release schedule, we split
is substantially higher. Workers who completed the most          the MS COCO dataset into two roughly equal parts.
jobs also have the highest precision; all jobs from work-        The first half of the dataset was released in 2014, the
ers below the black line were rejected.                          second half will be released in 2015. The 2014 release
                                                                 contains 82,783 training, 40,504 validation, and 40,775
4.5 Caption Annotation                                           testing images (approximately 12 train, 14 val, and 14 test).
We added five written caption descriptions to each               There are nearly 270k segmented people and a total of
image in MS COCO. A full description of the caption              886k segmented object instances in the 2014 train+val
statistics and how they were gathered will be provided           data alone. The cumulative 2015 release will contain a
shortly in a separate publication.                               total of 165,482 train, 81,208 val, and 81,434 test images.
                                                                                                                      7

Fig. 5: (a) Number of annotated instances per category for MS COCO and PASCAL VOC. (b,c) Number of annotated
categories and annotated instances, respectively, per image for MS COCO, ImageNet Detection, PASCAL VOC and
SUN (average number of categories and instances are shown in parentheses). (d) Number of categories vs. the
number of instances per category for a number of popular object recognition datasets. (e) The distribution of
instance sizes for the MS COCO, ImageNet Detection, PASCAL VOC and SUN datasets.

We took care to minimize the chance of near-duplicate       server is complete.
images existing across splits by explicitly removing near
duplicates (detected with [43]) and grouping images by        Note that we have limited the 2014 release to a subset
photographer and date taken.                                of 80 categories. We did not collect segmentations for the
                                                            following 11 categories: hat, shoe, eyeglasses (too many
  Following established protocol, annotations for train     instances), mirror, window, door, street sign (ambiguous
and validation data will be released, but not for test.     and difficult to label), plate, desk (due to confusion with
We are currently finalizing the evaluation server for       bowl and dining table, respectively) and blender, hair
automatic evaluation on the test set. A full discussion     brush (too few instances). We may add segmentations for
of evaluation metrics will be added once the evaluation     some of these categories in the cumulative 2015 release.
8

                                   Fig. 6: Samples of annotated images in the MS COCO dataset.

7    A LGORITHMIC A NALYSIS                                                     of [44] (release 5 [45]) trained on PASCAL VOC 2012.
Bounding-box detection For the following experiments                            DPMv5-C: the same implementation trained on COCO
we take a subset of 55,000 images from our dataset1 and                         (5000 positive and 10000 negative images). We use the
obtain tight-fitting bounding boxes from the annotated                          default parameter settings for training COCO models.
segmentation masks. We evaluate models tested on both                              If we compare the average performance of DPMv5-P
MS COCO and PASCAL, see Table 1. We evaluate two                                on PASCAL VOC and MS COCO, we find that average
different models. DPMv5-P: the latest implementation                            performance on MS COCO drops by nearly a factor of
                                                                                2, suggesting that MS COCO does include more difficult
  1. These preliminary experiments were performed before our final
split of the dataset intro train, val, and test. Baselines on the actual test   (non-iconic) images of objects that are partially occluded,
set will be added once the evaluation server is complete.                       amid clutter, etc. We notice a similar drop in performance
                                                                                                                              9

          plane bike bird boat bottle bus car cat chair cow table dog horse moto person plant sheep sofa train tv avg.
DPMv5-P 45.6 49.0 11.0 11.6 27.2 50.5 43.1 23.6 17.2 23.2 10.7 20.5 42.5 44.5           41.3   8.7   29.0 18.7 40.0 34.5 29.6
DPMv5-C 43.7 50.1 11.8 2.4       21.4 60.1 35.6 16.0 11.4 24.8 5.3      9.4 44.5 41.0   35.8   6.3   28.3 13.3 38.8 36.2 26.8
DPMv5-P 35.1 17.9 3.7 2.3          7   45.4 18.3 8.6   6.3   17   4.8   5.8 35.3 25.4   17.5   4.1   14.5   9.6 31.7 27.9 16.9
DPMv5-C 36.9 20.2 5.7 3.5         6.6 50.3 16.1 12.8 4.5 19.0 9.6       4.0 38.2 29.9   15.9   6.7   13.8 10.4 39.2 37.9 19.1

TABLE 1: Top: Detection performance evaluated on PASCAL VOC 2012. DPMv5-P is the performance reported
by Girshick et al. in VOC release 5. DPMv5-C uses the same implementation, but is trained with MS COCO.
Bottom: Performance evaluated on MS COCO for DPM models trained with PASCAL VOC 2012 (DPMv5-P) and
MS COCO (DPMv5-C). For DPMv5-C we used 5000 positive and 10000 negative training examples. While MS
COCO is considerably more challenging than PASCAL, use of more training data coupled with more sophisticated
approaches [5], [6], [7] should improve performance substantially.

for the model trained on MS COCO (DPMv5-C).
   The effect on detection performance of training on
PASCAL VOC or MS COCO may be analyzed by com-
paring DPMv5-P and DPMv5-C. They use the same
implementation with different sources of training data.
Table 1 shows DPMv5-C still outperforms DPMv5-P in
6 out of 20 categories when testing on PASCAL VOC. In             Fig. 7: We visualize our mixture-specific shape masks.
some categories (e.g., dog, cat, people), models trained          We paste thresholded shape masks on each candidate
on MS COCO perform worse, while on others (e.g., bus,             detection to generate candidate segments.
tv, horse), models trained on our data are better.
   Consistent with past observations [46], we find that
including difficult (non-iconic) images during training
may not always help. Such examples may act as noise
and pollute the learned model if the model is not
rich enough to capture such appearance variability. Our
dataset allows for the exploration of such issues.
   Torralba and Efros [42] proposed a metric to measure
cross-dataset generalization which computes the ‘per-
formance drop’ for models that train on one dataset
and test on another. The performance difference of the            Fig. 8: Evaluating instance detections with segmentation
DPMv5-P models across the two datasets is 12.7 AP                 masks versus bounding boxes. Bounding boxes are a
while the DPMv5-C models only have 7.7 AP difference.             particularly crude approximation for articulated objects;
Moreover, overall performance is much lower on MS                 in this case, the majority of the pixels in the (blue) tight-
COCO. These observations support two hypotheses: 1)               fitting bounding-box do not lie on the object. Our (green)
MS COCO is significantly more difficult than PASCAL               instance-level segmentation masks allows for a more
VOC and 2) models trained on MS COCO can generalize               accurate measure of object detection and localization.
better to easier datasets such as PASCAL VOC given
more training data. To gain insight into the differences
between the datasets, see the appendix for visualizations         boundaries. To decouple segmentation evaluation from
of person and chair examples from the two datasets.               detection correctness, we benchmark segmentation qual-
   Generating segmentations from detections We now                ity using only correct detections. Specifically, given that
describe a simple method for generating object bounding           the detector reports a correct bounding box, how well
boxes and segmentation masks, following prior work                does the predicted segmentation of that object match
that produces segmentations from object detections [47],          the ground truth segmentation? As criterion for correct
[48], [49], [50]. We learn aspect-specific pixel-level seg-       detection, we impose the standard requirement that
mentation masks for different categories. These are read-         intersection over union between predicted and ground
ily learned by averaging together segmentation masks              truth boxes is at least 0.5. We then measure the inter-
from aligned training instances. We learn different masks         section over union of the predicted and ground truth
corresponding to the different mixtures in our DPM                segmentation masks, see Fig. 8. To establish a baseline for
detector. Sample masks are visualized in Fig. 7.                  our dataset, we project learned DPM part masks onto the
   Detection evaluated by segmentation Segmentation               image to create segmentation masks. Fig. 9 shows results
is a challenging task even assuming a detector reports            of this segmentation baseline for the DPM learned on the
correct results as it requires fine localization of object part   20 PASCAL categories and tested on our dataset.
10

                                                                  Category: person                                                                        DPM Segmentation Performance Baseline
                                                          1                                                                           1

                                                         0.9

                                                                                             Average Overlap of Correct Detections
                                                                                                                                     0.9

                                                         0.8
                                                                                                                                     0.8

                                                         0.7

                                  Segmentation Overlap
                                                                                                                                     0.7
     Ground truth

                                                         0.6
                                                                                                                                     0.6
                                                         0.5
                                                                                                                                     0.5
                                                         0.4
                                                                                                                                     0.4
                                                         0.3
                                                                                                                                     0.3
                                                         0.2
     Predicted

                                                                                                                                     0.2
                                                         0.1

                                                                                                                                     0.1
                                                          0
                                                          0.5    0.6   0.7   0.8   0.9   1
                                                                Bounding Box Overlap                                                  0

                                                                                                                                                                     e

                                                                                                                                                                                           fa
                                                                                                                                                                                   p e
                                                                                                                                                                     s

                                                                                                                                                          ni ow
                                                                                                                                                ne

                                                                                                                                                  e

                                                                                                                                                                                 tte on
                                                                                                                                                                   at

                                                                                                                                                                                            p
                                                                                                                                                                     r

                                                                                                                                                                     r

                                                                                                                                                                                    sh t

                                                                                                                                                                                tv rain

                                                                                                                                                                                             r
                                                                                                                                                                   rd

                                                                                                                                                                     e

                                                                                                                                                                                            g
                                                                                                                                                                     t

                                                                                                                                                                                  ot se

                                                                                                                                                                                           n
                                                                                                                                                                 ca
                                                                                                                                                                 ca

                                                                                                                                                                  ai

                                                                                                                                                                                         ito
                                                                                                                                                                 bu

                                                                                                                                                                  bl

                                                                                                                                                                                           k
                                                                                                                                               cl

                                                                                                                                                                                        ee
                                                                                                                                                                 ttl

                                                                                                                                                                                       do

                                                                                                                                                                                      so
                                                                                                                                                                bo

                                                                                                                                                                                        la
                                                                                                                                                                bi

                                                                                                                                                                                       bi
                                                                                                                                                                                         r
                                                                                                                                              a

                                                                                                                                                                              po ers
                                                                                                                                                              ch

                                                                                                                                                                c
                                                                                                                                             cy

                                                                                                                                                               ta
                                                                                                                                                             bo

                                                                                                                                                                                     on
                                                                                                                                                                                    ho

                                                                                                                                                                                    dp
                                                                                                                                           pl

                                                                                                                                                                                      t
                                                                                                                                                                                    or
                                                                                                                                                            ng
                                                                                                                                                  bi
                                                                                                                                       ro

                                                                                                                                                                                   m
                                                                                                                                     ae

                                                                                                                                                                                  m
                                                                                                                                                       di
Fig. 9: A predicted segmentation might not recover object detail even though detection and ground truth bounding
boxes overlap well (left). Sampling from the person category illustrates that predicting segmentations from top-
down projection of DPM part masks is difficult even for correct detections (center). Average segmentation overlap
measured on MS COCO for the 20 PASCAL VOC categories demonstrates the difficulty of the problem (right).

8                   D ISCUSSION                                                                                                             A PPENDIX OVERVIEW
                                                                                                                                            In the appendix, we provide detailed descriptions of the
We introduced a new dataset for detecting and seg-                                                                                          AMT user interfaces and the full list of 272 candidate
menting objects found in everyday life in their natural                                                                                     categories (from which our final 91 were selected) and
environments. Utilizing over 70,000 worker hours, a                                                                                         40 scene categories (used for scene-object queries).
vast collection of object instances was gathered, anno-
tated and organized to drive the advancement of object                                                                                      A PPENDIX I: U SER I NTERFACES
detection and segmentation algorithms. Emphasis was                                                                                         We describe and visualize our user interfaces for collect-
placed on finding non-iconic images of objects in natural                                                                                   ing non-iconic images, category labeling, instance spot-
environments and varied viewpoints. Dataset statistics                                                                                      ting, instance segmentation, segmentation verification
indicate the images contain rich contextual information                                                                                     and finally crowd labeling.
with many objects present per image.                                                                                                           Non-iconic Image Collection Flickr provides a rich
   There are several promising directions for future anno-                                                                                  image collection associated with text captions. However,
tations on our dataset. We currently only label “things”,                                                                                   captions might be inaccurate and images may be iconic.
but labeling “stuff” may also provide significant con-                                                                                      To construct a high-quality set of non-iconic images, we
textual information that may be useful for detection.                                                                                       first collected candidate images by searching for pairs of
Many object detection algorithms benefit from additional                                                                                    object categories, or pairs of object and scene categories.
annotations, such as the amount an instance is occluded                                                                                     We then created an AMT filtering task that allowed users
[4] or the location of keypoints on the object [10]. Finally,                                                                               to remove invalid or iconic images from a grid of 128
our dataset could provide a good benchmark for other                                                                                        candidates, Fig. 10. We found the choice of instructions
types of labels, including scene types [3], attributes [9],                                                                                 to be crucial, and so provided users with examples of
[8] and full sentence written descriptions [51]. We are                                                                                     iconic and non-iconic images. Some categories rarely
actively exploring adding various such annotations.                                                                                         co-occurred with others. In such cases, we collected
   To download and learn more about MS COCO please                                                                                          candidates using only the object category as the search
see the project website2 . MS COCO will evolve and grow                                                                                     term, but apply a similar filtering step, Fig. 10(b).
over time; up to date information is available online.                                                                                         Category Labeling Fig. 12(a) shows our interface
   Acknowledgments Funding for all crowd worker                                                                                             for category labeling. We designed the labeling task to
tasks was provided by Microsoft. P.P. and D.R. were                                                                                         encourage workers to annotate all categories present in
supported by ONR MURI Grant N00014-10-1-0933. We                                                                                            the image. Workers annotate categories by dragging and
would like to thank all members of the community who                                                                                        dropping icons from the bottom category panel onto a
provided valuable feedback throughout the process of                                                                                        corresponding object instance. Only a single instance of
defining and collecting the dataset.                                                                                                        each object category needs to be annotated in the image.
                                                                                                                                            We group icons by the super-categories from Fig. 11,
                                                                                                                                            allowing workers to quickly skip categories that are
     2. http://mscoco.org/                                                                                                                  unlikely to be present.
                                                                                                                         11

                                                               fication stage is therefore to ensure that each segmented
                                                               instance from the previous stage is of sufficiently high
                                                               quality. Workers are shown a grid of 64 segmentations
                                                               and asked to select poor quality segmentations. Four
                                                               of the 64 segmentation are known to be bad; a worker
                                                               must identify 3 of the 4 known bad segmentations to
                                                               complete the task. Each segmentation is initially shown
                                                               to 3 annotators. If any of the annotators indicates the seg-
                                                               mentation is bad, it is shown to 2 additional workers. At
                                                               this point, any segmentation that doesn’t receive at least
                                                               4 of 5 favorable votes is discarded and the corresponding
                                                               instance added back to the pool of unsegmented objects.
                                                               Examples of borderline cases that either passed (4/5
                                                               votes) or were rejected (3/5 votes) are shown in Fig. 15.
                                                                  Crowd Labeling Fig. 12(e) shows our user interface
                                                               for crowd labeling. As discussed, for images containing
                                                               ten object instances or fewer of a given category, every
Fig. 10: User interfaces for non-iconic image collection.      object instance was individually segmented. In some
(a) Interface for selecting non-iconic images containing       images, however, the number of instances of a given
pairs of objects. (b) Interface for selecting non-iconic       category is much higher. In such cases crowd labeling
images for categories that rarely co-occurred with others.     provided a more efficient method for annotation. Rather
                                                               than requiring workers to draw exact polygonal masks
                                                               around each object instance, we allow workers to “paint”
                                                               all pixels belonging to the category in question. Crowd
   Instance Spotting Fig. 12(b) depicts our interface for      labeling is similar to semantic segmentation as object in-
labeling all instances of a given category. The interface      stance are not individually identified. We emphasize that
is initialized with a blinking icon specifying a single        crowd labeling is only necessary for images containing
instance obtained from the previous category-labeling          more than ten object instances of a given category.
stage. Workers are then asked to spot and click on up to
10 total instances of the given category, placing a single
cross anywhere within the region of each instance. In          A PPENDIX II: O BJECT & S CENE C ATEGORIES
order to spot small objects, we found it crucial to include    Our dataset contains 91 object categories (the 2014 re-
a “magnifying glass” feature that doubles the resolution       lease contains segmentation masks for 80 of these cate-
of a worker’s currently selected region.                       gories). We began with a list of frequent object categories
   Instance Segmentation Fig. 12(c) shows our user             taken from WordNet, LabelMe, SUN and other sources
interface for instance segmentation. We modified source        as well as categories derived from a free recall experi-
code from the OpenSurfaces project [16], which defines         ment with young children. The authors then voted on
a single AMT task for segmenting multiple regions of a         the resulting 272 categories with the aim of sampling
homogenous material in real-scenes. In our case, we de-        a diverse and computationally challenging set of cate-
fine a single task for segmenting a single object instance     gories; see §3 for details. The list in Table 2 enumerates
labeled from the previous annotation stage. To aid the         those 272 categories in descending order of votes. As
segmentation process, we added a visualization of the          discussed, the final selection of 91 categories attempts to
object category icon to remind workers of the category         pick categories with high votes, while keeping the num-
to be segmented. Crucially, we also added zoom-in              ber of categories per super-category (animals, vehicles,
functionality to allow for efficient annotation of small ob-   furniture, etc.) balanced.
jects and curved boundaries. In the previous annotation          As discussed in §3, in addition to using object-object
stage, to ensure high coverage of all object instances, we     queries to gather non-iconic images, object-scene queries
used multiple workers to label all instances per image.        also proved effective. For this task we selected a subset of
We would like to segment all such object instances,            40 scene categories from the SUN dataset that frequently
but instance annotations across different workers may          co-occurred with object categories of interest. Table 3
refer to different or redundant instances. To resolve this     enumerates the 40 scene categories (evenly split between
correspondence ambiguity, we sequentially post AMT             indoor and outdoor scenes).
segmentation tasks, ignoring instance annotations that
are already covered by an existing segmentation mask.
   Segmentation Verification Fig. 12(d) shows our user
interface for segmentation verification. Due to the time
consuming nature of the previous task, each object in-
stance is segmented only once. The purpose of the veri-
12

R EFERENCES                                                                   [29] V. Ordonez, J. Deng, Y. Choi, A. Berg, and T. Berg, “From large
                                                                                   scale image categorization to entry-level categories,” in ICCV,
[1]  J. Deng, W. Dong, R. Socher, L.-J. Li, K. Li, and L. Fei-Fei, “Im-            2013.
     ageNet: A Large-Scale Hierarchical Image Database,” in CVPR,             [30] C. Fellbaum, WordNet: An electronic lexical database. Blackwell
     2009.                                                                         Books, 1998.
[2] M. Everingham, L. Van Gool, C. K. I. Williams, J. Winn, and A. Zis-       [31] P. Welinder, S. Branson, T. Mita, C. Wah, F. Schroff, S. Belongie,
     serman, “The PASCAL visual object classes (VOC) challenge,”                   and P. Perona, “Caltech-UCSD Birds 200,” Caltech, Tech. Rep.
     IJCV, vol. 88, no. 2, pp. 303–338, Jun. 2010.                                 CNS-TR-201, 2010.
[3] J. Xiao, J. Hays, K. A. Ehinger, A. Oliva, and A. Torralba, “SUN          [32] E. Hjelmås and B. Low, “Face detection: A survey,” CVIU, vol. 83,
     database: Large-scale scene recognition from abbey to zoo,” in                no. 3, pp. 236–274, 2001.
     CVPR, 2010.                                                              [33] G. B. Huang, M. Ramesh, T. Berg, and E. Learned-Miller, “Labeled
[4] P. Dollár, C. Wojek, B. Schiele, and P. Perona, “Pedestrian detec-            faces in the wild,” University of Massachusetts, Amherst, Tech.
     tion: An evaluation of the state of the art,” PAMI, vol. 34, 2012.            Rep. 07-49, October 2007.
[5] A. Krizhevsky, I. Sutskever, and G. Hinton, “ImageNet classifica-         [34] O. Russakovsky, J. Deng, Z. Huang, A. Berg, and L. Fei-Fei,
     tion with deep convolutional neural networks,” in NIPS, 2012.                 “Detecting avocados to zucchinis: what have we done, and where
[6] R. Girshick, J. Donahue, T. Darrell, and J. Malik, “Rich feature               are we going?” in ICCV, 2013.
     hierarchies for accurate object detection and semantic segmenta-         [35] J. Shotton, J. Winn, C. Rother, and A. Criminisi, “TextonBoost
     tion,” in CVPR, 2014.                                                         for image understanding: Multi-class object recognition and seg-
[7] P. Sermanet, D. Eigen, S. Zhang, M. Mathieu, R. Fergus, and                    mentation by jointly modeling texture, layout, and context,” IJCV,
     Y. LeCun, “OverFeat: Integrated recognition, localization and                 vol. 81, no. 1, pp. 2–23, 2009.
     detection using convolutional networks,” in ICLR, April 2014.            [36] S. M. Seitz, B. Curless, J. Diebel, D. Scharstein, and R. Szeliski, “A
[8] A. Farhadi, I. Endres, D. Hoiem, and D. Forsyth, “Describing                   comparison and evaluation of multi-view stereo reconstruction
     objects by their attributes,” in CVPR, 2009.                                  algorithms,” in CVPR, 2006.
[9] G. Patterson and J. Hays, “SUN attribute database: Discovering,           [37] P. Arbelaez, M. Maire, C. Fowlkes, and J. Malik, “Contour detec-
     annotating, and recognizing scene attributes,” in CVPR, 2012.                 tion and hierarchical image segmentation,” PAMI, vol. 33, no. 5,
[10] L. Bourdev and J. Malik, “Poselets: Body part detectors trained               pp. 898–916, 2011.
     using 3D human pose annotations,” in ICCV, 2009.                         [38] C. Lampert, H. Nickisch, and S. Harmeling, “Learning to detect
[11] N. Silberman, D. Hoiem, P. Kohli, and R. Fergus, “Indoor seg-                 unseen object classes by between-class attribute transfer,” in
     mentation and support inference from RGBD images,” in ECCV,                   CVPR, 2009.
     2012.                                                                    [39] G. Heitz and D. Koller, “Learning spatial context: Using stuff to
[12] S. Palmer, E. Rosch, and P. Chase, “Canonical perspective and the             find things,” in ECCV, 2008.
     perception of objects,” Attention and performance IX, vol. 1, p. 4,      [40] R. Sitton, Spelling Sourcebook. Egger Publishing, 1996.
     1981.                                                                    [41] T. Berg and A. Berg, “Finding iconic images,” in CVPR, 2009.
                                                                              [42] A. Torralba and A. Efros, “Unbiased look at dataset bias,” in
[13] . Hoiem, D, Y. Chodpathumwan, and Q. Dai, “Diagnosing error
                                                                                   CVPR, 2011.
     in object detectors,” in ECCV, 2012.
                                                                              [43] M. Douze, H. Jégou, H. Sandhawalia, L. Amsaleg, and C. Schmid,
[14] G. Brostow, J. Fauqueur, and R. Cipolla, “Semantic object classes
                                                                                   “Evaluation of gist descriptors for web-scale image search,” in
     in video: A high-definition ground truth database,” PRL, vol. 30,
                                                                                   CIVR, 2009.
     no. 2, pp. 88–97, 2009.
                                                                              [44] P. Felzenszwalb, R. Girshick, D. McAllester, and D. Ramanan,
[15] B. Russell, A. Torralba, K. Murphy, and W. Freeman, “LabelMe: a
                                                                                   “Object detection with discriminatively trained part-based mod-
     database and web-based tool for image annotation,” IJCV, vol. 77,
                                                                                   els,” PAMI, vol. 32, no. 9, pp. 1627–1645, 2010.
     no. 1-3, pp. 157–173, 2008.
                                                                              [45] R. Girshick, P. Felzenszwalb, and D. McAllester, “Discriminatively
[16] S. Bell, P. Upchurch, N. Snavely, and K. Bala, “OpenSurfaces:                 trained deformable part models, release 5,” PAMI, 2012.
     A richly annotated catalog of surface appearance,” SIGGRAPH,             [46] X. Zhu, C. Vondrick, D. Ramanan, and C. Fowlkes, “Do we need
     vol. 32, no. 4, 2013.                                                         more training data or better models for object detection?” in
[17] V. Ordonez, G. Kulkarni, and T. Berg, “Im2text: Describing images             BMVC, 2012.
     using 1 million captioned photographs.” in NIPS, 2011.                   [47] T. Brox, L. Bourdev, S. Maji, and J. Malik, “Object segmentation
[18] J. Deng, O. Russakovsky, J. Krause, M. Bernstein, A. Berg, and                by alignment of poselet activations to image contours,” in CVPR,
     L. Fei-Fei, “Scalable multi-label annotation,” in CHI, 2014.                  2011.
[19] T. Lin, M. Maire, S. Belongie, J. Hays, P. Perona, D. Ramanan,           [48] Y. Yang, S. Hallman, D. Ramanan, and C. Fowlkes, “Layered
     P. Dollár, and C. L. Zitnick, “Microsoft COCO: Common objects                object models for image segmentation,” PAMI, vol. 34, no. 9, pp.
     in context,” in ECCV, 2014.                                                   1731–1743, 2012.
[20] D. Scharstein and R. Szeliski, “A taxonomy and evaluation of             [49] D. Ramanan, “Using segmentation to verify object hypotheses,”
     dense two-frame stereo correspondence algorithms,” IJCV, vol. 47,             in CVPR, 2007.
     no. 1-3, pp. 7–42, 2002.                                                 [50] Q. Dai and D. Hoiem, “Learning to localize detected objects,” in
[21] S. Baker, D. Scharstein, J. Lewis, S. Roth, M. Black, and R. Szeliski,        CVPR, 2012.
     “A database and evaluation methodology for optical flow,” IJCV,          [51] C. Rashtchian, P. Young, M. Hodosh, and J. Hockenmaier, “Col-
     vol. 92, no. 1, pp. 1–31, 2011.                                               lecting image annotations using Amazon’s Mechanical Turk,” in
[22] L. Fei-Fei, R. Fergus, and P. Perona, “Learning generative visual             NAACL Workshop, 2010.
     models from few training examples: An incremental bayesian
     approach tested on 101 object categories,” in CVPR Workshop of
     Generative Model Based Vision (WGMBV), 2004.
[23] G. Griffin, A. Holub, and P. Perona, “Caltech-256 object category
     dataset,” California Institute of Technology, Tech. Rep. 7694, 2007.
[24] N. Dalal and B. Triggs, “Histograms of oriented gradients for
     human detection,” in CVPR, 2005.
[25] Y. Lecun and C. Cortes, “The MNIST database of handwritten
     digits,” 1998. [Online]. Available: http://yann.lecun.com/exdb/
     mnist/
[26] S. A. Nene, S. K. Nayar, and H. Murase, “Columbia object image
     library (coil-20),” Columbia Universty, Tech. Rep., 1996.
[27] A. Krizhevsky and G. Hinton, “Learning multiple layers of fea-
     tures from tiny images,” Computer Science Department, University
     of Toronto, Tech. Rep, 2009.
[28] A. Torralba, R. Fergus, and W. T. Freeman, “80 million tiny
     images: A large data set for nonparametric object and scene
     recognition,” PAMI, vol. 30, no. 11, pp. 1958–1970, 2008.
                                                                                                              13

Fig. 11: Icons of 91 categories in the MS COCO dataset grouped by 11 super-categories. We use these icons in our
annotation pipeline to help workers quickly reference the indicated object category.

                 Fig. 12: User interfaces for collecting instance annotations, see text for details.
14

                             (a) PASCAL VOC.                                                                                  (b) MS COCO.
Fig. 13: Random person instances from PASCAL VOC and MS COCO. At most one instance is sampled per image.

      person          bicycle           car        motorcycle            bird                  cat                 dog               horse          sheep             bottle
        chair          couch     potted plant            tv              cow               airplane               hat∗         license plate          bed             laptop
       fridge      microwave           sink           oven             toaster                bus                 train           mirror∗       dining table        elephant
      banana           bread          toilet          book               boat               plate∗            cell phone           mouse           remote              clock
         face           hand          apple         keyboard         backpack         steering wheel          wine glass           chicken          zebra             shoe∗
         eye          mouth         scissors          truck         traffic light       eyeglasses∗                cup            blender∗       hair drier           wheel
   street sign∗     umbrella         door∗        fire hydrant          bowl                teapot                fork               knife         spoon                bear
    headlights      window∗          desk∗          computer        refrigerator             pizza              squirrel              duck         frisbee            guitar
        nose       teddy bear           tie         stop sign        surfboard            sandwich            pen/pencil              kite         orange          toothbrush
      printer           pans          head         sports ball        broccoli             suitcase              carrot          chandelier    parking meter             fish
     handbag         hot dog         stapler    basketball hoop         donut                 vase           baseball bat     baseball glove       giraffe             jacket
         skis     snowboard       table lamp           egg          door handle        power outlet                hair               tiger          table         coffee table
   skateboard       helicopter      tomato             tree            bunny                pillow          tennis racket             cake            feet            bench
 chopping board       washer           lion          monkey         hair brush∗         light switch              arms                legs          house             cheese
        goat        magazine           key       picture frame        cupcake         fan (ceil/floor)            frogs             rabbit            owl               scarf
         ears     home phone            pig      strawberries         pumpkin                 van              kangaroo          rhinoceros       sailboat              deer
  playing cards        towel         hyppo              can          dollar bill              doll                soup                meat        window             muffins
         tire        necklace         tablet           corn            ladder            pineapple               candle           desktop           carpet            cookie
     toy cars         bracelet          bat          balloon           gloves                milk                 pants         wheelchair        building            bacon
         box         platypus      pancake           cabinet            whale                dryer                torso              lizard          shirt            shorts
       pasta          grapes          shark           swan             fingers              towel              side table             gate          beans           flip flops
       moon       road/street      fountain       fax machine             bat         hot air balloon            cereal           seahorse          rocket           cabinets
    basketball      telephone    movie (disc)        football           goose        long sleeve shirt   short sleeve shirt            raft        rooster            copier
       radio           fences      goal net            toys            engine            soccer ball      field goal posts           socks       tennis net             seats
      elbows         aardvark      dinosaur          unicycle          honey                 legos                  fly               roof        baseball               mat
        ipad          iphone          hoop             hen               back            table cloth          soccer nets           turkey        pajamas          underpants
     goldfish           robot       crusher     animal crackers   basketball court           horn                firefly           armpits          nectar     super hero costume
      jetpack          robots

TABLE 2: Candidate category list (272). Bold: selected categories (91). Bold∗ : omitted categories in 2014 release (11).
                                                                                                                                              15

                       (a) PASCAL VOC.                                                             (b) MS COCO.
Fig. 14: Random chair instances from PASCAL VOC and MS COCO. At most one instance is sampled per image.

Fig. 15: Examples of borderline segmentations that passed (top) or were rejected (bottom) in the verification stage.

       library        church        office      restaurant    kitchen   living room    bathroom      factory       campus        bedroom
    child’s room   dining room   auditorium        shop        home         hotel      classroom    cafeteria   hospital room   food court
        street         park         beach          river      village       valley       market      harbor          yard       parking lot
     lighthouse      railway     playground   swimming pool    forest    gas station     garden       farm        mountain         plaza

                                                  TABLE 3: Scene category list.
