---
source_id: 166
bibtex_key: ji2020conet
title: Accurate RGB-D Salient Object Detection via Collaborative Learning
year: 2020
domain_theme: RGB-D SOD
verified_pdf: 166_CoNet.pdf
char_count: 83057
---

Accurate RGB-D Salient Object Detection via
                                                       Collaborative Learning

                                             Wei Ji?1 , Jingjing Li?1 , Miao ZhangB1 , Yongri Piao1 , and Huchuan Lu1,2
                                                            1
                                                              Dalian University of Technology, Dalian, China
                                                                   2
                                                                     Pengcheng Lab, Shenzhen,China
                                                         weiji.dlut@gmail.com, jingjing.dlut@outlook.com,
arXiv:2007.11782v1 [cs.CV] 23 Jul 2020

                                                             {miaozhang, yrpiao, lhchuan}@dlut.edu.cn
                                                               https://github.com/OIPLab-DUT/CoNet

                                                 Abstract. Benefiting from the spatial cues embedded in depth images,
                                                 recent progress on RGB-D saliency detection shows impressive ability
                                                 on some challenge scenarios. However, there are still two limitations.
                                                 One hand is that the pooling and upsampling operations in FCNs might
                                                 cause blur object boundaries. On the other hand, using an additional
                                                 depth-network to extract depth features might lead to high computation
                                                 and storage cost. The reliance on depth inputs during testing also limits
                                                 the practical applications of current RGB-D models. In this paper, we
                                                 propose a novel collaborative learning framework where edge, depth and
                                                 saliency are leveraged in a more efficient way, which solves those prob-
                                                 lems tactfully. The explicitly extracted edge information goes together
                                                 with saliency to give more emphasis to the salient regions and object
                                                 boundaries. Depth and saliency learning is innovatively integrated into
                                                 the high-level feature learning process in a mutual-benefit manner. This
                                                 strategy enables the network to be free of using extra depth networks
                                                 and depth inputs to make inference. To this end, it makes our model
                                                 more lightweight, faster and more versatile. Experiment results on seven
                                                 benchmark datasets show its superior performance.

                                         1     Introduction
                                         The goal of salient object detection (SOD) is to locate and segment the most at-
                                         tractive and noticeable regions in an image. As a fundamental and pre-processing
                                         task, salient object detection plays an important role in various computer vision
                                         tasks, e.g., visual tracking [25,52], video SOD [58,20], object detection [50,14],
                                         semantic segmentation [37], and human-robot interaction [13].
                                            Recent researches on RGB-D salient object detection have gradually bro-
                                         ken the performance bottleneck of traditional methods and RGB-based meth-
                                         ods, especially when dealing with complex scenarios like similar foreground
                                         and background. However, there are some limitations with the introduction of
                                         FCNs [40,51] and depth images. Firstly, the emergence of FCNs enables auto-
                                         matic extraction of multi-level and multi-scale features. The high-level features
                                         ?
                                             means equal contribution.
2             W. Ji, et al.

                                                                                           Conv    Conv   ...               Conv
                                                                                                                Depth Net

                                                                             Depth Input
                                                                                                    Cross Model Fusion             Model
                             Low-level Features
                                                                                                                                           Output
                                                                                           Conv    Conv   ...               Conv
                                                                                                                RGB Net

                                                                             RGB Input
                             High-level Features                                                                            (a)

                                                                                           Designed Model / Subnetwork

    Image        Depth             Edge               GT          Ours*      Depth Input

                                                                                           Conv    Conv   ...               Conv   Model
                                                                                                                RGB Net
                                                                                                                                           Output
                                                                             RGB Input
 EGNet [66]   PoolNet [38]       CPD [60]          CPFP* [65]   DMRA* [46]                                                  (b)

Fig. 1. (Left) First two rows: feature maps in different layers of CNNs. Last two rows:
RGB image, depth image, edge map, saliency ground truth (GT) and saliency results
of several state-of-the-art methods. * means RGB-D methods. (Right) Two kinds of
previous RGB-D SOD network structures. (a) Processing RGB input and depth input
separately and then combining the complementary RGB and depth features through
cross-modal fusion (e.g. [7,23,5,6,46]). (b) Using tailor-made depth subnetworks to
compensate for RGB representations (e.g. [68,65]).

with rich semantic information can better locate salient objects but the pool-
ing and upsampling operations in FCNs might result in coarse and blur object
boundaries (see Fig. 1 (left)). The low-level features contain rich local details
but suffer from excessive background noises and might cause information chaos.
Secondly, the spatial layout information from depth images can better express
3D scenes and help locate salient objects. However, previous RGB-D methods
either adopted two-stream architectures that process RGB and depth images
separately with various cross-modal fusion strategies (see Fig. 1a) [7,23,5,6,46],
or utilized subnetworks tailored for depth image to compensate for RGB repre-
sentations (see Fig. 1b) [68,65]. In those methods, the additional depth-networks
might lead to high computation and storage cost, and cannot work without depth
input, seriously limiting their practical applications.
    In this paper, we propose a novel collaborative learning framework (CoNet)
to confront the aforementioned limitations. In collaborative learning, multiple
group members work together to achieve learning goals through exploratory
learning and timely interaction. In our framework, three mutually beneficial col-
laborators are well-designed from different perspectives of the SOD task, namely
edge detection, coarse salient object detection, and depth estimation. On the one
hand, a edge collaborator is proposed to explicitly extracts edge information from
the overabundant low-level features and then goes together with saliency knowl-
edge to jointly assign greater emphasis to salient regions and object boundaries.
On the other hand, considering the strong consistencies among global semantics
and geometrical properties of image regions [54], we innovatively integrate depth
and saliency learning into the high-level feature learning process in a mutual-
benefit manner. Instead of directly taking depth image as input, this learning
strategy enables the network to be free of using an extra depth network to make
inference from an extra input. Compared with previous RGB-D models which
      Accurate RGB-D Salient Object Detection via Collaborative Learning       3

utilize additional subnetworks to extract depth features and rely on depth images
as input, our network is more lightweight, faster and more versatile. To our best
knowledge, this is the first attempt to use depth images in such a way in RGB-D
SOD research. Finally, a unified tutor named knowledge collector is designed to
accomplish knowledge transfer from individual collaborators to the group, so as
to more comprehensively utilize the learned edge, saliency and depth knowledges
to make accurate saliency prediction. Benefiting from this learning strategy, our
framework produces accurate saliency results with sharp boundary preserved
and simultaneously avoids the reliance on depth images during testing.
    In summary, our main contributions are as follows:

 – We propose a novel collaborative learning framework (CoNet) where edge,
   depth, and saliency are leveraged in a different but more efficient way for
   RGB-D salient object detection. The edge exploitation makes the boundaries
   of saliency maps more accurate.
 – This learning strategy enables our RGB-D network to be free of using an
   additional depth network and depth input during testing, and thus being
   more lightweight and versatile.
 – Experiment results on seven datasets show the superiority of our method over
   other state-of-the-art approaches. Moreover, it supports the faster frame rate
   as it runs at 34 FPS, meeting the needs of real-time prediction (enhances
   FPS by 55% compared with current best performing method DMRA [46]).

2   Related Work

Early works [27,10,45,36,61] for saliency detection mainly rely on hand-crafted
features. [2,3,55] are some comprehensive surveys. Recently, traditional meth-
ods have been gradually surpassed by deep learning ones. Among those re-
searches, 2D methods [32,33,53,67,30,35,56,57,16,41,60] based on RGB images
have achieved remarkable performance and lone been the mainstream of saliency
detection. However, 2D saliency detection appears to make a downgrade when
handling complex scenarios due to the lack of spatial information in single RGB
image. The introduction of depth images in RGB-D saliency researches [49,31,48,23,7,5,6,68,46,65]
has made great promotions for those complex cases thanks to the embedded rich
spatial information of depth images.
    The first CNNs-based method [48] for RGB-D SOD uses hand-crafted fea-
tures extracted from RGB and depth images for training. Then, Chen et al.
propose to use two-stream models [23,7] to process RGB and depth image sep-
arately and then combine cross-modal features to jointly predict saliency. They
subsequently design a progressive fusion network [5] to better fuse cross-modal
multi-level features and propose a three-stream network [6] which adopts the
attention mechanism to adaptively select complement from RGB and depth fea-
tures. Afterwards, Piao et al. [46] utilize residual structure and depth-scale fea-
ture fusion module to fuse paired RGB and depth features. The network struc-
tures in [23,7,5,6,46] can be represented as two-stream architectures shown in
4       W. Ji, et al.

Fig. 1a. Another kind of structure is the use of subnetworks tailored for depth
images to extract depth features and make compensation for RGB representa-
tions [68,65] (Fig. 1b). Zhu et al. [68] utilize an auxiliary network to extract
depth-induced features and then use them to enhance a pre-trained RGB prior
model. In [65], Zhao et al. first enhance the depth map by contrast prior and
then think of it as an attention map and integrate it with RGB features.
    Those methods have some limitations. Using additional depth networks to
extract depth features leads to high computation and storage cost. The reliance
on depth images as input during testing also severely limits the practical appli-
cations of current RGB-D models. Moreover, we found that the boundaries of
the produced saliency maps in those methods are a bit coarse and blur. This
is mainly because the pooling and upsampling operations in FCNs might lead
to the loss of local details and current RGB-D methods have not taken steps to
emphasize the boundaries of salient objects.
    Some RGB-based SOD methods attempt to enhance the boundary accuracy
through adding edge constraints or designing boundary-aware losses. An edge
guidance network [66] couples saliency and edge features to better preserve accu-
rate object boundary. Liu et al. [38] train their pooling-based network with edge
detection task and successfully enhance the details of salient regions. A predict-
refine architecture [47] equipped with a hybrid loss segments salient regions and
refines the structure with clear boundaries. An attentive feedback module [21]
employs a boundary-enhanced loss for learning exquisite boundaries.
    In this paper, we propose a novel collaborative learning framework where
edge, depth and saliency are leveraged in a different but more efficient way. Dif-
ferent from previous RGB methods using edge supervision [66,38] or boundary-
aware losses [47,21], we further combine the learned edge knowledge with saliency
knowledge to give extra emphasis to both salient regions and boundaries. For
the use of depth, we innovatively integrate it into the high-level feature learning
process in a mutual-benefit manner, instead of directly taking depth images as
input. Free of using the depth subnetworks and depth input during testing makes
our network more lightweight and versatile. In Section 3, we will elaborate on
our collaborative learning framework.

3     Collaborative Learning Framework
3.1   The Overall Architecture
In this paper, we propose a novel CoNet for RGB-D SOD. The overall architec-
ture is shown in Fig. 2. In this framework, three mutually beneficial collabora-
tors, namely edge detection, coarse salient object detection and depth estimation,
work together to aid accurate SOD through exploratory learning and timely in-
teraction. From different perspectives of the SOD target, knowledges from edge,
depth and saliency are fully exploited in a mutual-benefit manner to enhance
the detector’s performance. A simplified workflow is given below.
    First, a backbone network is used to extract features from original images.
Five transition layers and a global guidance module (GGM) are followed to per-
            Accurate RGB-D Salient Object Detection via Collaborative Learning                                                                                                                                                                                           5

           `PaRN
                                                                                                                                                              M3283
                                                                                                                             Att 3283                                              Att 3283       Att 3283                      Att BC93                 Att B
                                                        trans1
                                                                              CONVZ×Z
                                                                                                                                                                      Loss3                                    ○
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <    CONV@×@
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Softmax

                                                                        ○
                                        Low-level                                                                                                                                  Att 9:;        Att 9:;                       Att BC93                 Att B
                                        Integration                     <
                                                                                                                         CONV@×@
                                                   trans2
                                                                                        sl                  64
                                                                                                           ×
                                                                                                    2   56
                                                                                                  6×                                                          M3283
                                                                                             25
                                          trans3

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 HIJKLMNLOP
                                                                J
                                                          LKY W
                                                             PM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Att B

                                                        QR WOXY
                                                                              CONVZ×Z
                                                                        ○
                          High-level
                          Integration
                                        trans4                          <      [\×]

                                                          Q

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ⊕
                                                                                                                                                                                                                ⊕
                                                                                                                                                                                              ⦿

                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ⦿
                                    trans5                                              s6
                                                                                                                                                                              ℱ8                                                               CONV@×@

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 QIORPK NIRNS
                                                                                                                                        Knowledge Collector
  Feature Extraction                                                                                                     Att 23456
                                                                                                                 ○

                                                                  ⦿
                                                                                                                                         Att 3283 Att 9:;
       Network
                                                   CA
                                                                        s6v
                                                                                                                 <             ℱ8       ℱ8                   nopq:;
                                                                                                                          Att 9:;                                                                                    Knowledge Collector
                                                                                                                                             Att 23456                             Att 23456       Att 23456
           Loss2                                                                                                          Att 3283
                                              ··

                                                                        ⦿
                                         Depth Head               stu                                                                                       LossB
              Att 23456                                                                                                                                                        trans : transition layer                            [\×]    : upsample ×4
                                                                                 SA          CONV@×@
                                                        Att 9:;                                                                                                                    CA         /   SA         : channel / spatial attention

                                                                                                                                                                              ⦿
                                                                                                                                                                                              ⊕
                                                                                                                 Loss9
                                                                                                                                                                                        /           : pixel - wise multiplication / addition
            wJaNS
                                                                                                                                             HIJKLMNLOP                       ○
                                                                                                                                                                              < : concatenation operation

Fig. 2. The overall architecture of our collaborative learning framework. Details of the
Global Guidance Module can be found in Fig. 3. Here, Att∗ = 1 − Att∗ .

Table 1. Detailed information of the five transition layers in Fig. 2. We show the input
size and output size of the feature maps before and after those transition layers, and
represent their specific transition operators for better understanding.
                   Transition Input Size           Transition Operators         Output Size
                     trans1 128 × 128 × 64              U psample×2            256 × 256 × 64
                     trans2 64 × 64 × 256               U psample×4           256 × 256 × 256
                     trans3 32 × 32 × 512 U psample×2 , Conv3×3 + BN + P Relu 64 × 64 × 64
                     trans4 16 × 16 × 1024 U psample×4 , Conv3×3 + BN + P Relu 64 × 64 × 64
                     trans5 16 × 16 × 2048 U psample×4 , Conv3×3 + BN + P Relu 64 × 64 × 64

form feature preprocessing and generate the integrated low-level feature fl and
high-level feature fh (details are shown in Sec. 3.2). Then an edge collaborator is
assigned to fl to extract edge information from the overabundant low-level fea-
ture. For the high-level feature fh , saliency collaborator and depth collaborator
work together to jointly enhance the high-level feature learning process of global
semantics in a mutual-benefit manner. Finally, all learned knowledges from three
collaborators (Attedge , Attsal and Attdepth ), as well as the integrated low-level
and high-level feature (Fg ), are uniformly handed to a knowledge collector (KC).
Here, acting as a tutor, KC summarizes the learned edge, depth and saliency
knowledges and utilizes them to predict accurate saliency results. We elaborate
on the three collaborators and the KC in Sec. 3.3.

3.2       Feature Preprocessing
Backbone Network. We use the widely used ResNet [24] suggested by other
deep-learning-based methods [15,39,60] as backbone network, where the last fully
connected layers are truncated to better fit for the SOD task. As shown in Fig. 2,
five side-out features generated from the backbone network are transferred to
five transition layers to change their sizes and the number of channels. Detailed
parameters are listed in Table. 1, and the five output features are defined as
{f1 , f2 , f3 , f4 , f5 }.
6        W. Ji, et al.

Global Guidance Module. In order                @4*AB4 /-01-/,2*+
                                                                                Context feature

                                                     C*DE4-
to obtain richer global semantics and                             JK

alleviate information dilution in the
                                                     ○  ?

                                                                      Feature Aggregation
decoder, a Global Guidance Module
                                                                             ···
(GGM) is applied on high-level fea-                     ;×=×>       ;×=×>                                       ;×=×>

tures (i.e. f3 , f4 , and f5 )(see Fig. 3).
                                                                                                  )*+,-., /-01-/,2*+ 324,-05
Its key component, global perception                              J        Feature map

module (GPM), takes the progres-
sively integrated feature as input, fol-                                    @4*AB4 @E2DB+1-
                                                        LP  O  LP
                                                                M        LP      N           LP                                M
lowed by four parallel dilated convo-               ○                                       ○
                                                                     LP ○
                                                      ?                 ?                   ?

                                                                ⊕

                                                                                                  ⊕
                                                                        N            LP                          M
lution operations [62] (kernel size =
3, dilation rates = 1/6/12/18 ) and              L     O             L N           L                        M
one 1×1 traditional convolution oper-
ation, to obtain rich global semantics. Fig. 3. The architecture of global guidance
                                            module (GGM).
Benefiting from the dilated convolu-
tion [62], the GPM captures affluent multi-scale contextual information with-
out sacrificing image resolution [8,9]. Here, we define the process of GPM as
Fe = Φ(F ), where F denotes the input feature map and Fe means the output
feature. In GGM, we take the summation of the feature in current layer and the
output features of all high-level GPMs as input to alleviate information dilu-
tion. Finally, three output features of GPMs are concatenated and an integrated
high-level feature fh is produced, which is computed by:
                                      P5
                          fei = Φ(fi + m=i+1 fem ), i = 3, 4, 5,                                                                   (1)

                         fh = U p(Wh ∗ Concat(fe3 , fe4 , fe5 ) + bh ),                                                            (2)
where * means convolution operation. Wh and bh are convolution parameters.
U p(·) means the upsampling operation.

3.3    Collaborative Learning

Edge Collaborator. Existing 3D methods [48,5,6,46,65] have achieved remark-
able performance in locating salient regions, but they still suffer from coarse ob-
ject boundaries. In our framework, we design an edge collaborator to explicitly
extract edge information from the overabundant low-level feature and use this
information to give more emphasis to object boundaries.
    Specifically, we first formulate this problem by adding edge supervision on the
top of integrated low-level feature fl . The used edge ground truths (GT) (shown
in Fig. 1) are derived from saliency GT using canny operator [4]. As shown in
Fig. 2, fl is processed by a 1×1 convolution operation and a softmax function to
generate the edge map Medge . Then, binary cross entropy loss (denoted as losse )
is adopted to calculate the difference between Medge and edge GT. As the edge
maps Medge in Fig. 2 and Fig. 5 show, edge detection constraint is beneficial for
predicting accurate boundaries of salient objects. Additionally, we also transfer
the learned edge knowledge before the softmax function (denoted as Attedge ) to
       Accurate RGB-D Salient Object Detection via Collaborative Learning           7

the knowledge collector (KC), where the edge information is further utilized to
emphasize object boundaries. The reason why we use Attedge rather than Medge
is to alleviate the negative influence brought by accuracy decrement of Medge .
Saliency and Depth Collaborators. When addressing scene understanding
tasks like semantic segmentation and salient object detection, there exist strong
consistencies among the global semantics and geometric properties of image re-
gions [54]. In our framework, a saliency collaborator and a depth collaborator
work together to jointly enhance the feature learning process of high-level se-
mantics in a mutual-benefit manner.
     Stage one: The high-level feature fh is first processed by a 1 × 1 convolution
operation and a softmax function to predict a coarse saliency map Scoarse . Here,
binary cross entropy loss (denoted as losss ) is used for training. Then, the learned
saliency knowledge acts as a spatial attention map to refine the high-level feature
in a similar way like [60]. But different from [60] which considers Scoarse as
attention map directly, we use the more informative feature map before softmax
function (denoted as Attsal ) to emphasize or suppress each pixel of fh . Identify
mapping is adopted to alleviate the errors in Attsal to be propagated to depth
learning and accelerate network convergence. Formally, this procedure can be
defined as:
                               Attsal = Ws ∗ fh + bs ,                             (3)

                               feh = Attsal   fh + fh ,                           (4)

where        means element-wise multiplication. feh denotes the output saliency-
enhanced feature.
     Stage two: As pointed out in previous RGB-D researches [46,65], the spatial
information within depth image is helpful for better locating salient objects in a
scene. In our network, we innovatively integrate depth learning into the high-level
feature learning process, instead of directly taking depth image as input. This
learning strategy enables our network to be free of using an extra depth network
to make inference from an extra depth input, and thus being more lightweight
and versatile. As in Fig. 2, a depth head with three convolution layers (defined as
Ψ (·)) is first used to make feature feh adapt to depth estimation. Then, its output
Ψ (feh ) is followed by a 1 × 1 convolution operation to generate the estimated
depth map Attdepth . Here, depth images act as GTs for supervision and we use
smooth L1 loss [22] to calculate the difference between Attdepth and depth GT,
where smooth L1 loss is a robust L1 loss proposed in [22] that is less sensitive
to outliers than L2 loss. Formally, the depth loss can be defined as:

                 W X H 
            1   X        0.5 × |4(x, y)|2 , if |4(x, y)| ≤ 1,
  Lossd =                                                                (5)
          W × H x=1 y=1 |4(x, y)| − 0.5, if 4(x, y) < −1 or 4(x, y) > 1,

where W and H denote the width and height of the depth map. 4(x, y) means
the error between prediction Attdepth and the depth GT in each pixel (x, y).
Since each channel of a feature map can be considered as a feature detector [59],
8      W. Ji, et al.

the depth knowledge Attdepth is further employed to learn a channel-wise atten-
tion map Mc for choosing useful semantics. Identify mapping operation is also
adopted to enhance the fault-tolerant ability. This procedure can be defined as:

                           Attdepth = Wd ∗ Ψ (feh ) + bd ,                     (6)

                        Mc = σ(GP (Wc ∗ Attdepth + bc )),                      (7)
                               fhc = Mc ⊗ feh + feh ,                          (8)
where w∗ and b∗ are parameters to be learned. GP (·) means global pooling
operation. σ(·) is the softmax function. ⊗ denotes channel-wise multiplication.
    After these two stages, two collaborators can cooperatively generate opti-
mal feature which contains affluent spatial cues and possesses strong ability to
distinguish salient and non-salient regions.
Knowledge Collector. In our framework, the KC works as a unified tutor to
complete knowledge transfer from individual collaborators to the group.
    As illustrated in Fig. 2, all knowledges learned from three collaborators (i.e.
Attedge , Attsal , and Attdepth ) and the concatenated multi-level feature Fg =
Concat(fl , fhc ) are uniformly transferred to the KC. Those information are com-
prehensively processed in a triple-attention manner to give more emphasis to
salient regions and object boundaries. In Fig. 2, we show a detailed diagram
with visualized attention maps for better understanding. To be specific, Attedge
and Attsal are first concatenated together to jointly learn a fused attention map
Attf , where the locations and boundaries of the salient objects are considered
uniformly. Then, Fg is in turn multiplied with the depth attention map Attdepth
and the fused attention map Attf , which significantly enhances the contrast be-
tween salient and non-salient areas. Ablation analysis shows the ability of the
KC to enhance the performance significantly.
    There is a vital problem worth thinking about. The quality of Attdepth and
Attf might lead to irrecoverable inhibition of salient areas. Therefore, we add
several residual connection operations [24] to the KC to retain the original fea-
tures. Formally, this process can be defined as:

                  Attf = σ(Wf ∗ Concat(Attsal , Attedge ) + bf ),              (9)

                            Feg = Attdepth     Fg + Fg ,                      (10)
                              F = Attf       Feg + Feg .                      (11)
In the end, F is followed by a 1 × 1 convolution operation and an upsampling
operation to generate the final saliency map Sf inal . Here, binary cross entropy
loss (denoted as lossf ) is used to calculate the difference between Sf inal and
saliency GT. Thus, the total loss L can be represented as:

                 L = λe Losse + λs Losss + λd Lossd + λf Lossf ,              (12)

where Losse , Losss , and Lossf are cross entropy loss and Lossd is a smooth L1
loss. In this paper, we set λe = λs = λf = 1 and λd = 3.
       Accurate RGB-D Salient Object Detection via Collaborative Learning          9

4     Experiments

4.1   Dataset

To evaluate the performance of our network, we conduct experiments on seven
widely used benchmark datasets.
DUT-D [46]: contains 1200 images with 800 indoor and 400 outdoor scenes
paired with corresponding depth images. This dataset contains many complex
scenarios. NJUD [28]: contains 1985 stereo images (the latest version). They
are gathered from the Internet, 3D movies and photographs taken by a Fuji W3
stereo camera. NLPR [44]: includes 1000 images captured by Kinect under
different illumination conditions. SIP [19]: contains 929 salient person samples
with different poses and illumination conditions. LFSD [34]: is a relatively small
dataset with 100 images captured by Lytro camera. STEREO [43]: contains
797 stereoscopic images downloaded from the Internet. RGBD135 [11]: consists
of seven indoor scenes and contains 135 images captured by Kinect.
    For training, we split 800 samples from DUT-D, 1485 samples from NJUD,
and 700 samples from NLPR as in [5,6,46]. The remaining images and other
public datasets are all for testing to comprehensively evaluate the generation
abilities of models. To reduce overfitting, we augment the training set by ran-
domly flipping, cropping and rotating those images.

4.2   Experimental setup

Evaluation metrics. We adopt 6 widely used evaluation metrics to verify the
performance of various models, including precision-recall (PR) curve, mean F-
measure (Fβ ) [1], mean absolute error (MAE) [3], weighted F-measure (Fβw ) [42]
and recently proposed S-measure (S) [17] and E-measure (E) [18]. Saliency maps
are binarized using a series of thresholds and then pairs of precision and recall
are computed to plot the PR curve. The F-measure is a harmonic mean of aver-
age precision and average recall. Here, we calculate the mean F-measure which
uses adaptive threshold to generate binary saliency map. The MAE represents
the average absolute difference between the saliency map and ground truth.
Weighted F-measure intuitively generalizes F-measure by alternating the way to
calculate the Precision and Recall. S-measure contains two terms: object-aware
and region-aware structural similarities. E-measure jointly captures image level
statistics and local pixel matching information. Details of those evaluation met-
rics can refer to [55]. For MAE, lower value is better. For others, higher is better.
Implementation details. We implement our proposed framework using the
Pytorch toolbox and train it with a GTX 1080 Ti GPU. All training and test
images are uniformly resized to 256×256. Our network is trained in an end-to-end
manner using the standard SGD optimizer, and it converges after 50 epochs with
batch size of 2. The momentum, weight decay and learning rate are set as 0.9,
0.0005 and 1e-10, respectively. Any post-processing procedure (e.g., CRF [29])
is not applied in this work. The model size of our network has only 167.6M and
the inference speed for a 256 × 256 image only takes 0.0290s (34FPS).
10         W. Ji, et al.

4.3     Ablation Analysis

Overview of Performance. We show the quantitative and qualitative results
of different modules of our proposed network in Tab. 2 and Fig. 4. The backbone
network (denoted as B) is constructed by directly concatenating low-level feature
fl and high-level feature fh without using GGM for prediction. Comparison of
the results (a) and (b) shows that adding our GGM can more effectively extract
rich semantic features and prevent information dilution in the decoding stage.
After introducing edge supervision
(denoted as E), the boundaries of the Table 2. Quantitative results of the abla-
                                                    tion analysis on two benchmark datasets. B
saliency maps are sharper (b vs c in
                                                    means the backbone network. E and S rep-
Fig. 4). The edge maps (Medge ) in resent edge supervision and saliency super-
Fig. 2 and Fig. 5 also show the ability vision respectively. SSA + DCA means our
of our network in explicitly extracting mutual-benefit learning strategy between
object boundaries. By adding addi- depth and saliency. +KC means adding our
tional saliency supervision on fh (de- knowledge collector on (e).
noted as S), the performance can be
                                                                                         NJUD            NLPR
further improved. However, by com-
                                                     indexes Modules               Fβ ↑ M AE ↓ Fβ ↑ M AE ↓
paring (d) and (e), we can see that our                (a) B                       0.831 0.065 0.797 0.050
mutual-benefit learning style between                  (b) B+GGM                   0.839 0.060 0.813 0.044
saliency collaborator and depth          col-          (c) (b)+E                   0.851 0.056 0.825 0.041
                                * (d)         * (b)+E+S
                                                                 $ * '%!         0.857 0.054 0.833 0.038
laborator (denoted as SSA and DCA )                    (e) (b)+E+SSA +DCA 0.864 0.051 0.841 0.035
can further improve the detector’s                     (f) (e)+KC                 0.872 0.047 0.848 0.031
ability to locate salient objects. This
also verifies the strong correlation be-
tween saliency and depth. Finally, by
using our proposed (KC), all learned
edge, depth and saliency knowledges
from three collaborators can be ef-
fectively summarized and utilized to                  RGB      (a)       (b) (c)       (d)    (e)    (f)     GT
give more emphasis to salient regions Fig. 4. Visual saliency maps of ablation
and object boundaries, improving the analysis. The meaning of the indexes (a)-
average MAE performance on two (f) can refer to Table. 2.
                                )$#%  )$#%  )$#%!  )$#%!  )$#%!            +()   
datasets by nearly 9.6% points.           By                                 )$#%, $&))     )$#%,'*" **%*#&%
comparing (e) and (f) in Fig. 4, we can also see that salient regions in (f) are
more consistent with the saliency GT and the object boundaries are explicitly
highlighted benefiting from the comprehensive knowledge utilization. Those ad-
vances demonstrate that using our collaborative learning strategy is beneficial
for accurate saliency prediction. We list some numerical results here for better
understanding. The Root Mean Squared Error (RMSE) of depth prediction on
NJUD and NLPR datasets are 0.3684 and 0.4696, respectively. The MAE scores
of edge prediction are 0.053 and 0.044, respectively.
The Interactions between Collaborators.
Saliency and Edge. To explore the correlation between saliency and edge,
we gradually add edge detection supervision (denoted as E) and saliency su-
pervision (denoted as Sl ) on the low-level feature fl . From the quantitive re-
         Accurate RGB-D Salient Object Detection via Collaborative Learning                                 11

sults in Tab. 3, we can see that adding edge supervision can explicitly ex-
tract clear boundary information and significantly enhance the detection per-
formance, especially for the F-measure scores. However, when adding saliency
supervision on fl , the performances on both datasets decrease dramatically.
This is partly because the low-level
                                            Table 3. Ablation analysis of the interac-
features contain too much informa- tions between three collaborators. The mean-
tion and are relatively too coarse to ing of indexes (b)-(f) can refer to Table. 2.
predict saliency, and partly because +Sl means adding saliency supervision on
the two tasks are to some extent in- low-level feature. D means depth supervision.
compatible, in which one is for high-
                                                                                         NJUD        NLPR
lighting the boundaries and another
                                               Modules                               Fβ ↑ M AE ↓ Fβ ↑ M AE ↓
is for highlighting the whole salient
                                               Saliency & Edge
objects. Hence, it is optimal to only          (b)                                   0.839 0.060 0.813 0.044
add edge detection supervision on              (b)+E (c)
                                               (b)+E+Sl
                                                                                     0.851 0.056 0.825 0.041
                                                                                     0.835 0.062 0.807 0.044
the low-level feature.
                                               Saliency & Depth
Saliency and Depth. In order to                (c)                                   0.851 0.056 0.825 0.041
                                               (c)+S (d)                             0.857 0.054 0.833 0.038
verify the effectiveness of the pro-           (c)+S+D                               0.859 0.054 0.835 0.037
posed mutual-benefit learning strat-           (c)+S+DCA                             0.861 0.053 0.837 0.036
                                               (c)+SSA +DCA (e)                      0.864 0.051 0.841 0.035
egy on high-level feature fh , we
                                               Saliency & Edge & Depth
gradually add two collaborators and            (e)                                   0.864 0.051 0.841 0.035
their mutual-benefit operations to             (e)+Att    edge                       0.868 0.049 0.846 0.032
                                               (e)+Attsal                            0.866 0.049 0.844 0.033
the baseline model (c). As shown in            (e)+Attedge +Attsal                   0.869 0.048 0.846 0.031
                                     (e)+Att
                                                     edge +Attsal +Attdepth (f) 0.872 0.047 0.848 0.031
Tab. 3, adding saliency supervision
(denoted as S) and adding depth su-
pervision (denoted as D) are all ben-
eficial for extracting more represen-                Image                                  M          M
                                                                    GT          Ours     "#$"       "#$"
tative high-level semantic features.
In addition, by gradually intro-
ducing our proposed mutual-benefit                   Att          Att          Att          Att       Att
                                                          '()        "#$"      *+'"        *        #",-.
learning strategy between two col-
laborators (denoted as SSA and
DCA ), spatial layouts and global                    Att          Att          Att          Att       Att
                                                          '()        "#$"      *+'"        *        #",-.

semantics of high-level feature can
                                            Fig. 5. Internal results in the knowledge col-
be greatly enhanced, which conse-
                                            lector. The results of another sample can be
quently brings additional accuracy seen in Fig. 2. Here, F = 1 − F .
gains on both datasets. These re-
sults further verify the effectiveness of our collaborative learning framework.
Saliency, Edge and Depth. In our knowledge collector, all knowledge learned
from three collaborators are summarized and utilized in a triple-attention man-
ner. As the visualized attention maps in Fig. 2 and Fig. 5 show, the edge knowl-
edge (Attedge ) can help highlight object boundaries, and the depth and saliency
knowledge (Attdepth and Attsal ) can also be used to emphasize salient regions
and suppress non-salient regions. We can see from Tab. 3 that both Attedge and
Attsal are beneficial for enhancing the feature representation and improving the
F-measure and MAE performance. In our framework, we adopt a better strategy
12          W. Ji, et al.

Table 4. Quantitative comparisons on seven benchmark datasets. The best three re-
sults are shown in blue, red, and green fonts respectively.
Dataset        Metric DES LHM DCMC MB CDCP DF CTMF PDNet MPCI TANet PCA CPFP DMRA Ours
                      [11] [44] [12] [69] [70] [48] [23] [68] [7] [6] [5] [65] [46]

               E↑     0.733 0.767   0.712   0.691   0.794   0.842   0.884   0.861   0.855   0.866   0.858   0.854   0.927   0.941
               S↑     0.659 0.568   0.499   0.607   0.687   0.730   0.834   0.799   0.791   0.808   0.801   0.749   0.888   0.918
DUT-D [46]     Fβw ↑  0.386 0.350   0.290   0.464   0.530   0.542   0.690   0.650   0.636   0.712   0.696   0.644   0.858   0.896
               Fβ ↑   0.668 0.659   0.406   0.577   0.633   0.748   0.792   0.757   0.753   0.779   0.760   0.736   0.883   0.908
               M AE ↓ 0.280 0.174   0.243   0.156   0.159   0.145   0.097   0.112   0.113   0.093   0.100   0.099   0.048   0.034
               E↑     0.421 0.722   0.796   0.643   0.751   0.818   0.864   0.890   0.878   0.893   0.896   0.894   0.908   0.912
               S↑     0.413 0.530   0.703   0.534   0.673   0.735   0.849   0.883   0.859   0.878   0.877   0.878   0.886   0.894
                w
NJUD [28]      Fβ ↑   0.241 0.311   0.506   0.369   0.522   0.552   0.732   0.798   0.749   0.812   0.811   0.837   0.853   0.856
               Fβ ↑   0.165 0.625   0.715   0.492   0.618   0.744   0.788   0.832   0.813   0.844   0.844   0.850   0.872   0.872
               M AE ↓ 0.448 0.201   0.167   0.202   0.181   0.151   0.085   0.062   0.079   0.061   0.059   0.053   0.051   0.047
               E↑     0.735 0.772   0.684   0.814   0.785   0.838   0.869   0.876   0.871   0.916   0.916   0.924   0.942 0.936
               S↑     0.582 0.591   0.550   0.714   0.724   0.769   0.860   0.835   0.855   0.886   0.873   0.888   0.899 0.907
                w
NLPR [44]      Fβ ↑   0.259 0.320   0.265   0.574   0.512   0.524   0.691   0.659   0.688   0.789   0.772   0.820   0.845 0.850
               Fβ ↑   0.583 0.520   0.328   0.637   0.591   0.682   0.723   0.740   0.729   0.795   0.794   0.822   0.855 0.848
               M AE ↓ 0.301 0.119   0.196   0.089   0.114   0.099   0.056   0.064   0.059   0.041   0.044   0.036   0.031 0.031
            E↑     0.451 0.781      0.838   0.693   0.801   0.844   0.870   0.903   0.890   0.911   0.905   0.897   0.920   0.923
            S↑     0.473 0.567      0.745   0.579   0.727   0.763   0.853   0.874   0.856   0.877   0.880   0.871   0.886   0.908
STEREO [43] Fβw ↑  0.277 0.369      0.551   0.445   0.595   0.576   0.727   0.799   0.747   0.811   0.810   0.818   0.850   0.871
            Fβ ↑   0.223 0.716      0.761   0.572   0.680   0.761   0.786   0.833   0.812   0.849   0.845   0.827   0.868   0.885
            M AE ↓ 0.417 0.179      0.150   0.178   0.149   0.142   0.087   0.064   0.080   0.060   0.061   0.054   0.047   0.041
               E↑     0.742 0.722   0.787   0.715   0.721   0.794   0.824   0.802   0.886   0.893   0.898   0.899   0.863   0.909
               S↑     0.616 0.523   0.684   0.624   0.597   0.651   0.716   0.691   0.833   0.835   0.844   0.850   0.806   0.858
SIP [19]       Fβw ↑  0.352 0.286   0.426   0.474   0.411   0.411   0.551   0.503   0.726   0.762   0.777   0.798   0.750   0.814
               Fβ ↑   0.646 0.593   0.646   0.573   0.494   0.672   0.684   0.620   0.795   0.809   0.824   0.818   0.819   0.842
               M AE ↓ 0.300 0.182   0.186   0.163   0.224   0.186   0.139   0.166   0.086   0.075   0.071   0.064   0.085   0.063
               E↑     0.475 0.742   0.842   0.631   0.737   0.841   0.851   0.872   0.840   0.845   0.846   0.867   0.899 0.897
               S↑     0.440 0.558   0.754   0.538   0.658   0.796   0.796   0.845   0.787   0.801   0.800   0.828   0.847 0.862
                w
LFSD [34]      Fβ ↑   0.278 0.379   0.605   0.401   0.524   0.645   0.700   0.738   0.668   0.723   0.720   0.779   0.814 0.819
               Fβ ↑   0.228 0.708   0.815   0.543   0.634   0.810   0.781   0.824   0.779   0.794   0.794   0.813   0.849 0.848
               M AE ↓ 0.415 0.211   0.155   0.218   0.199   0.142   0.120   0.109   0.132   0.111   0.112   0.088   0.075 0.071
             E↑     0.786 0.850     0.674   0.798   0.806   0.801   0.907   0.915   0.899   0.916   0.909   0.927   0.945   0.945
             S↑     0.627 0.577     0.470   0.661   0.706   0.685   0.863   0.868   0.847   0.858   0.845   0.874   0.901   0.910
              w
RGBD135 [11] Fβ ↑   0.301 0.372     0.173   0.516   0.484   0.397   0.694   0.731   0.656   0.745   0.718   0.794   0.849   0.856
             Fβ ↑   0.689 0.857     0.228   0.588   0.583   0.566   0.765   0.800   0.750   0.782   0.763   0.819   0.857   0.861
             M AE ↓ 0.289 0.097     0.194   0.102   0.119   0.130   0.055   0.050   0.064   0.045   0.049   0.037   0.029   0.027

that Attedge and Attsal are concatenated together to jointly emphasize salient
objects and their boundaries. Finally, by comparing the results in the last two
lines of Tab. 3, we can see that by further utilizing the learned depth knowledge,
the detector’s performance can be further improved. We visualize all internal
results of the KC in Fig. 5 for better understanding.

4.4        Comparison with State-of-the-arts

We compare results from our method with various state-of-the-art approaches on
seven public datasets. For fair comparisons, the results from competing methods
are generated by authorized codes or directly provided by authors.
Quantitative Evaluation. Tab. 4 shows the quantitative results of our method
over other 13 RGB-D ones on seven benchmark datasets. We can see that our
proposed collaborative learning framework achieves superior performance. Noted
that our method avoids the reliance on depth images and only takes RGB im-
age as input in the testing stage. To comprehensively verify the effectiveness of
our model, we additionally conduct comparisons with 9 state-of-the-art RGB
methods on three public datasets. Results in Tab. 5 consistently show that our
         Accurate RGB-D Salient Object Detection via Collaborative Learning                                            13

          Table 5. Quantitative comparisons with state-of-the-art 2D methods.

   Dataset        Metric DSS Amulet R3 Net PiCANet PAGRN EGNet PoolNet BASNet CPD Ours
                         [26] [63]   [15]     [39]   [64] [66]   [38]    [47]  [60]

                  S↑     0.807   0.843     0.837     0.847       0.829    0.871    0.872         0.872   0.876 0.894
   NJUD [28]
                  Fβw ↑  0.678   0.758     0.736     0.768       0.746    0.812    0.816         0.839   0.834 0.856
                  M AE ↓ 0.108   0.085     0.092     0.071       0.081    0.057    0.057         0.055   0.054 0.047
                  S↑     0.816   0.848     0.798     0.834       0.844    0.861    0.867         0.890   0.887 0.907
   NLPR [44]
                  Fβw ↑  0.614   0.716     0.611     0.707       0.707    0.760    0.771         0.834   0.820 0.850
                  M AE ↓ 0.076   0.062     0.101     0.053       0.051    0.046    0.046         0.036   0.036 0.031
                  S↑     0.841   0.881     0.855     0.868       0.851    0.897    0.898         0.896   0.899 0.908
   STEREO [43]
                  Fβw ↑  0.718   0.811     0.752     0.774       0.792    0.847    0.849         0.873   0.865 0.871
                  M AE ↓ 0.087   0.062     0.084     0.062       0.067    0.045    0.045         0.042   0.042 0.041

 Image   Depth   GT    Ours*   DMRA*     CPFP*   TANet* PDNet*   PCA*    EGNet PoolNet     CPD    PiCANet PAGRN   R3Net

Fig. 6. Visual comparisons of our method with other state-of-the-art CNNs-based
methods in some representative scenes. * means RGB-D methods.

method also achieves comparable results compared to 2D methods. The PR
curves in Fig. 7 also verify the superiority of our method.
Qualitative Evaluation. Fig. 6 shows some representative samples of results
comparing our method with some top-ranking CNNs-based RGB and RGB-D
approaches. For the complex scenes with lower-contrast (the 4th and 5th rows) or
multiple objects (the 8th row), our method can better locate the salient objects
thanks to the useful spatial information in depth image and sufficient extraction
and utilization of edge information. Thus, our method can produce accurate
saliency results with sharp boundaries preserved.
Complexity Evaluation. We also compare the model size and run time (Frame
Per Second, FPS) of our method with 11 representative models in Tab. 6. Thanks
to the well-designed depth learning strategy, our network is free of using extra
depth networks and depth inputs to make inference. It can also be seen that
our method achieves outstanding scores with a smaller model size and higher
14                                          W. Ji, et al.

             1                                                                                       1                                                                                       1                                                                                         1

            0.9                                                                                     0.9                                                                                     0.9                                                                                       0.9

                            Ours                                                                                                                                                            0.8             Ours                                                                                      Ours
            0.8                                                                                     0.8                                                                                                     Amulet                                                                    0.8
                            Amulet                                                                                  Ours                                                                                                                                                                              Amulet
                            BASNet                                                                                  Amulet                                                                                  BASNet                                                                                    BASNet
                                                                                                                                                                                            0.7             CPD                                                                                       CPD
                            CPD                                                                                     BASNet
            0.7                                                                                     0.7                                                                                                     CPFP                                                                      0.7             CPFP
                            CPFP                                                                                    CPD
                                                                                                                                                                                                            CTMF                                                                                      CTMF

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Precision
Precision

                                                                                                                                                                                Precision
                                                                                        Precision
                            CTMF                                                                                    CTMF                                                                    0.6
                            DF                                                                                      DF                                                                                      DF                                                                                        DF
            0.6             DMRA                                                                    0.6             DMRA                                                                                    DMRA                                                                      0.6             DMRA
                            DSS                                                                                     DSS                                                                     0.5             DSS                                                                                       DSS
                            EGNet                                                                                   EGNet                                                                                   EGNet                                                                                     EGNet
            0.5             MPCI                                                                    0.5             MPCI                                                                                    MPCI                                                                      0.5             MPCI
                            PAGRN                                                                                   PAGRN                                                                   0.4             PAGRN                                                                                     PAGRN
                            PCA                                                                                     PCA                                                                                     PCA                                                                                       PCA
            0.4             PDNet                                                                   0.4             PDNet                                                                                   PDNet                                                                     0.4             PDNet
                            PiCANet                                                                                 PiCANet                                                                 0.3             PiCANet                                                                                   PiCANet
                            PoolNet                                                                                 PoolNet                                                                                 PoolNet                                                                                   PoolNet
            0.3             R³Net                                                                   0.3             R³Net                                                                                   R³Net                                                                     0.3             R³Net
                            TANet                                                                                   TANet                                                                   0.2             TANet                                                                                     TANet
                            UCF                                                                                     UCF                                                                                     UCF                                                                                       UCF
            0.2                                                                                     0.2                                                                                     0.1                                                                                       0.2
                  0   0.1       0.2   0.3    0.4    0.5     0.6   0.7   0.8   0.9   1                     0   0.1       0.2    0.3   0.4    0.5     0.6   0.7   0.8   0.9   1                     0   0.1       0.2     0.3   0.4    0.5     0.6   0.7   0.8    0.9   1                     0   0.1       0.2   0.3   0.4    0.5     0.6   0.7   0.8   0.9   1
                                                   Recall                                                                                  Recall                                                                                   Recall                                                                                  Recall

                                  (a) DUT-D dataset                                                                           (b) NJUD dataset                                                                        (c) NLPR dataset                                                                     (d) STEREO dataset

Fig. 7. The PR curves of our method compared to other state-of-the-art approaches
on four datasets.
Table 6. Complexity comparisons of various methods. The best three results are shown
in blue, red, and green fonts respectively. FPS means frame per second.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NJUD [28]                             NLPR [44]
                                                                        Types Methods                                                Years                            Size                            FPS Fβw ↑ M AE ↓ Fβw ↑ M AE ↓
                                                                                      DSS 2017’CVPR 447.3MB 22                                                                                                         0.678               0.108               0.614                    0.076
                                                                                     Amulet 2017’ICCV 132.6 MB 16                                                                                                      0.758               0.085               0.716                    0.062
                                                                          2D        PiCANet 2018’CVPR 197.2 MB 7                                                                                                       0.768               0.071               0.707                    0.053
                                                                                    PoolNet 2019’CVPR 278.5 MB 32                                                                                                      0.816               0.057               0.771                    0.046
                                                                                      CPD 2019’CVPR 183 MB 62                                                                                                          0.834               0.054               0.820                    0.036
                                                                                            PCA                                2018’CVPR 533.6 MB                                                     15               0.811               0.059               0.772 0.044
                                                                                           TANet                                2019’TIP 951.9 MB                                                     14               0.812               0.061               0.789 0.041
                                                                                           MPCI                                 2019’PR 929.7 MB                                                      19               0.749               0.079               0.688 0.059
                                                                          3D
                                                                                           PDNet                               2019’ICME 192 MB                                                       19               0.798               0.062               0.659 0.064
                                                                                           CPFP                                2019’CVPR 278 MB                                                        6               0.837               0.053               0.820 0.036
                                                                                           DMRA                                2019’ICCV 238.8 MB                                                     22               0.853               0.051               0.845 0.031
                                                                              *                      Ours                                                       167.6 MB                              34 0.856 0.047 0.850 0.031

FPS (enhances FPS by 55% compared to current best performing RGB-D model
DMRA). Those results confirm that our model is suitable for the pre-processing
task in terms of model size and running speed.

5                              Conclusion
In this work, we propose a novel collaborative learning framework for accurate
RGB-D salient object detection. In our framework, three mutually beneficial
collaborators, i.e., edge detection, coarse salient object detection and depth esti-
mation, jointly accomplish the SOD task from different perspectives. Benefiting
from the well-designed mutual-benefit learning strategy between three collabo-
rators, our method can produce accurate saliency results with sharp boundaries
preserved. Free of using extra depth subnetworks and depth inputs during testing
also makes our network more lightweight and versatile. Experiment results on
seven benchmark datasets show that our method achieves superior performance
over 22 state-of-the-art RGB and RGB-D methods.

Acknowledgements
This work was supported by the Science and Technology Innovation Foundation
of Dalian (2019J12GX034), the National Natural Science Foundation of China
(61976035), and the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities
(DUT19JC58, DUT20JC42).
       Accurate RGB-D Salient Object Detection via Collaborative Learning            15

References
 1. Achanta, R., Hemami, S.S., Estrada, F.J., Ssstrunk, S.: Frequency-tuned salient
    region detection. In: CVPR. pp. 1597–1604 (2009)
 2. Borji, A., Cheng, M.M., Jiang, H., Li, J.: Salient object detection: A benchmark.
    TIP 24(12), 5706–5722 (2015)
 3. Borji, A., Sihite, D.N., Itti, L.: Salient object detection: a benchmark. In: ECCV.
    pp. 414–429 (2012)
 4. Canny, J.: A computational approach to edge detection. TPAMI 8(6), 679–698
    (1986)
 5. Chen, H., Li, Y.: Progressively complementarity-aware fusion network for rgb-d
    salient object detection. In: CVPR. pp. 3051–3060 (2018)
 6. Chen, H., Li, Y.: Three-stream attention-aware network for rgb-d salient object
    detection. TIP 28(6), 2825–2835 (2019)
 7. Chen, H., Li, Y., Su, D.: Multi-modal fusion network with multi-scale multi-path
    and cross-modal interactions for rgb-d salient object detection. PR 86, 376–385
    (2019)
 8. Chen, L.C., Papandreou, G., Kokkinos, I., Murphy, K., Yuille, A.L.: Deeplab:
    Semantic image segmentation with deep convolutional nets, atrous convolution,
    and fully connected crfs. TPAMI 40(4), 834–848 (2018)
 9. Chen, L.C., Zhu, Y., Papandreou, G., Schroff, F., Adam, H.: Encoder-decoder
    with atrous separable convolution for semantic image segmentation. In: ECCV.
    pp. 833–851 (2018)
10. Cheng, M.M., Zhang, G.X., Mitra, N.J., Huang, X., Hu, S.M.: Global contrast
    based salient region detection. TPAMI 37(3), 409–416 (2011)
11. Cheng, Y., Fu, H., Wei, X., Xiao, J., Cao, X.: Depth enhanced saliency detection
    method. In: ICIMCS. pp. 23–27 (2014)
12. Cong, R., Lei, J., Zhang, C., Huang, Q., Cao, X., Hou, C.: Saliency detection for
    stereoscopic images based on depth confidence analysis and multiple cues fusion.
    SPL 23(6), 819–823 (2016)
13. Craye, C., Filliat, D., Goudou, J.F.: Environment exploration for object-based
    visual saliency learning. In: ICRA. pp. 2303–2309 (2016)
14. Dai, J., Li, Y., He, K., Sun, J.: R-fcn: object detection via region-based fully
    convolutional networks. In: NIPS. pp. 379–387 (2016)
15. Deng, Z., Hu, X., Zhu, L., Xu, X., Qin, J., Han, G., Heng, P.A.: R3 net: Recurrent
    residual refinement network for saliency detection. In: IJCAI. pp. 684–690 (2018)
16. Fan, D.P., Cheng, M.M., Liu, J.J., Gao, S.H., Hou, Q., Borji, A.: Salient objects in
    clutter: Bringing salient object detection to the foreground. In: ECCV. pp. 196–212
    (2018)
17. Fan, D.P., Cheng, M.M., Liu, Y., Li, T., Borji, A.: Structure-measure: A new way
    to evaluate foreground maps. In: ICCV. pp. 4558–4567 (2017)
18. Fan, D.P., Gong, C., Cao, Y., Ren, B., Cheng, M.M., Borji, A.: Enhanced-alignment
    measure for binary foreground map evaluation. In: IJCAI. pp. 698–704 (2018)
19. Fan, D.P., Lin, Z., Zhao, J., Liu, Y., Zhang, Z., Hou, Q., Zhu, M., Cheng, M.M.:
    Rethinking rgb-d salient object detection: Models, datasets, and large-scale bench-
    marks. arXiv preprint arXiv:1907.06781 (2019)
20. Fan, D.P., Wang, W., Cheng, M.M., Shen, J.: Shifting more attention to video
    salient object detection. In: CVPR. pp. 8554–8564 (2019)
21. Feng, M., Lu, H., Ding, E.: Attentive feedback network for boundary-aware salient
    object detection. In: CVPR. pp. 1623–1632 (2019)
16      W. Ji, et al.

22. Girshick, R.: Fast r-cnn. In: ICCV. pp. 1440–1448 (2015)
23. Han, J., Chen, H., Liu, N., Yan, C., Li, X.: Cnns-based rgb-d saliency detection
    via cross-view transfer and multiview fusion. IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man,
    and Cybernetics 48(11), 3171–3183 (2018)
24. He, K., Zhang, X., Ren, S., Sun, J.: Deep residual learning for image recognition.
    In: CVPR. pp. 770–778 (2016)
25. Hong, S., You, T., Kwak, S., Han, B.: Online tracking by learning discriminative
    saliency map with convolutional neural network. In: ICML. pp. 597–606 (2015)
26. Hou, Q., Cheng, M.M., Hu, X., Borji, A., Tu, Z., Torr, P.H.S.: Deeply supervised
    salient object detection with short connections. In: CVPR. pp. 815–828 (2017)
27. Itti, L., Koch, C., Niebur, E.: A model of saliency-based visual attention for rapid
    scene analysis. TPAMI 20(11), 1254–1259 (1998)
28. Ju, R., Ge, L., Geng, W., Ren, T., Wu, G.: Depth saliency based on anisotropic
    center-surround difference. In: ICIP. pp. 1115–1119 (2014)
29. Krhenbhl, P., Koltun, V.: Efficient inference in fully connected crfs with gaussian
    edge potentials. In: NIPS. pp. 109–117 (2011)
30. Lee, G., Tai, Y.W., Kim, J.: Deep saliency with encoded low level distance map
    and high level features. In: CVPR. pp. 660–668 (2016)
31. Li, G., Zhu, C.: A three-pathway psychobiological framework of salient object
    detection using stereoscopic technology. In: ICCVW. pp. 3008–3014 (2017)
32. Li, G., Yu, Y.: Visual saliency based on multiscale deep features. In: CVPR. pp.
    5455–5463 (2015)
33. Li, G., Yu, Y.: Visual saliency detection based on multiscale deep cnn features.
    TIP 25(11), 5012–5024 (2016)
34. Li, N., Ye, J., Ji, Y., Ling, H., Yu, J.: Saliency detection on light field. TPAMI
    39(8), 1605–1616 (2017)
35. Li, X., Zhao, L., Wei, L., Yang, M.H., Wu, F., Zhuang, Y., Ling, H., Wang, J.:
    Deepsaliency: Multi-task deep neural network model for salient object detection.
    TIP 25(8), 3919–3930 (2016)
36. Li, Y., Hou, X., Koch, C., Rehg, J.M., Yuille, A.L.: The secrets of salient object
    segmentation. In: CVPR. pp. 280–287 (2014)
37. Lin, G., Milan, A., Shen, C., Reid, I.D.: Refinenet: Multi-path refinement networks
    for high-resolution semantic segmentation. In: CVPR. pp. 5168–5177 (2017)
38. Liu, J.J., Hou, Q., Cheng, M.M., Feng, J., Jiang, J.: A simple pooling-based design
    for real-time salient object detection. In: CVPR. pp. 3917–3926 (2019)
39. Liu, N., Han, J., Yang, M.H.: Picanet: Learning pixel-wise contextual attention for
    saliency detection. In: CVPR. pp. 3089–3098 (2018)
40. Long, J., Shelhamer, E., Darrell, T.: Fully convolutional networks for semantic
    segmentation. In: CVPR. pp. 3431–3440 (2015)
41. Luo, Z., Mishra, A.K., Achkar, A., Eichel, J.A., Li, S., Jodoin, P.M.: Non-local
    deep features for salient object detection. In: CVPR. pp. 6593–6601 (2017)
42. Margolin, R., Zelnik-Manor, L., Tal, A.: How to evaluate foreground maps. In:
    CVPR. pp. 248–255 (2014)
43. Niu, Y., Geng, Y., Li, X., Liu, F.: Leveraging stereopsis for saliency analysis. In:
    CVPR. pp. 454–461 (2012)
44. Peng, H., Li, B., Xiong, W., Hu, W., Ji, R.: Rgbd salient object detection: A
    benchmark and algorithms. In: ECCV. pp. 92–109 (2014)
45. Perazzi, F., Krhenbhl, P., Pritch, Y., Hornung, A.: Saliency filters: Contrast based
    filtering for salient region detection. In: CVPR. pp. 733–740 (2012)
46. Piao, Y., Ji, W., Li, J., Zhang, M., Lu, H.: Depth-induced multi-scale recurrent
    attention network for saliency detection. In: ICCV (2019)
       Accurate RGB-D Salient Object Detection via Collaborative Learning              17

47. Qin, X., Zhang, Z., Huang, C., Gao, C., Dehghan, M., Jagersand, M.: Basnet:
    Boundary-aware salient object detection. In: CVPR. pp. 7479–7489 (2019)
48. Qu, L., He, S., Zhang, J., Tian, J., Tang, Y., Yang, Q.: Rgbd salient object detection
    via deep fusion. TIP 26(5), 2274–2285 (2017)
49. Ren, J., Gong, X., Yu, L., Zhou, W., Yang, M.Y.: Exploiting global priors for rgb-d
    saliency detection. In: CVPRW. pp. 25–32 (2015)
50. Ren, S., He, K., Girshick, R.B., Sun, J.: Faster r-cnn: towards real-time object
    detection with region proposal networks. In: NIPS. vol. 2015, pp. 91–99 (2015)
51. Simonyan, K., Zisserman, A.: Very deep convolutional networks for large-scale
    image recognition. In: ICLR (2015)
52. Smeulders, A.W.M., Chu, D.M., Cucchiara, R., Calderara, S., Dehghan, A., Shah,
    M.: Visual tracking: An experimental survey. TPAMI 36(7), 1442–1468 (2014)
53. Wang, L., Lu, H., Ruan, X., Yang, M.H.: Deep networks for saliency detection via
    local estimation and global search. In: CVPR. pp. 3183–3192 (2015)
54. Wang, P., Shen, X., Lin, Z., Cohen, S., Price, B., Yuille, A.: Towards unified depth
    and semantic prediction from a single image. In: CVPR. pp. 2800–2809 (2015)
55. Wang, W., Lai, Q., Fu, H., Shen, J., Ling, H.: Salient object detection in the deep
    learning era: An in-depth survey. arXiv preprint arXiv:1904.09146 (2019)
56. Wang, W., Shen, J.: Deep visual attention prediction. TIP 27(5), 2368–2378 (2018)
57. Wang, W., Shen, J., Dong, X., Borji, A.: Salient object detection driven by fixation
    prediction. In: CVPR. pp. 1711–1720 (2018)
58. Wang, W., Shen, J., Xie, J., Cheng, M.M., Ling, H., Borji, A.: Revisiting video
    saliency prediction in the deep learning era. TPAMI pp. 1–1 (2019)
59. Woo, S., Park, J., Lee, J.Y., Kweon, I.S.: Cbam: Convolutional block attention
    module. In: ECCV. pp. 3–19 (2018)
60. Wu, Z., Su, L., Huang, Q.: Cascaded partial decoder for fast and accurate salient
    object detection. In: CVPR. pp. 3907–3916 (2019)
61. Yan, Q., Xu, L., Shi, J., Jia, J.: Hierarchical saliency detection. In: CVPR. pp.
    1155–1162 (2013)
62. Yu, F., Koltun, V.: Multi-scale context aggregation by dilated convolutions. In:
    ICLR (2016)
63. Zhang, P., Wang, D., Lu, H., Wang, H., Ruan, X.: Amulet: Aggregating multi-level
    convolutional features for salient object detection. In: ICCV. pp. 202–211 (2017)
64. Zhang, X., Wang, T., Qi, J., Lu, H., Wang, G.: Progressive attention guided re-
    current network for salient object detection. In: CVPR. pp. 714–722 (2018)
65. Zhao, J., Cao, Y., Fan, D., Cheng, M., LI, X., Zhang, L.: Contrast prior and fluid
    pyramid integration for rgbd salient object detection. In: CVPR (2019)
66. Zhao, J., Liu, J., Fan, D.P., Cao, Y., Yang, J., Cheng, M.M.: Egnet: Edge guidance
    network for salient object detection. In: ICCV (2019)
67. Zhao, R., Ouyang, W., Li, H., Wang, X.: Saliency detection by multi-context deep
    learning. In: CVPR. pp. 1265–1274 (2015)
68. Zhu, C., Cai, X., Huang, K., Li, T.H., Li, G.: Pdnet: Prior-model guided depth-
    enhanced network for salient object detection. In: ICME. pp. 199–204 (2019)
69. Zhu, C., Li, G., Guo, X., Wang, W., Wang, R.: A multilayer backpropagation
    saliency detection algorithm based on depth mining. In: CAIP. pp. 14–23 (2017)
70. Zhu, C., Li, G., Wang, W., Wang, R.: An innovative salient object detection using
    center-dark channel prior. In: ICCVW. pp. 1509–1515 (2017)
